Dear Gonzales family, In my simulation, I found out that changing your mass will not change your speed, only height will. When my KG was 60 my speed at the bottom of my drop was the same as my speed when the mass was 40kg. For my roller coaster, my car mass is 50kg and I begin my initial drop at 3.5m, my first loop being 2.5m followed by a 2m hill and a 1m hill so it slows down but is still fast enough to make the hills. I chose all of these heights because they slowly decrease and still supply enough energy to make it around the loop and over the hills when kinetic energy is caught and then potential energy builds. My height will impact my PE by giving the car enough weight to build KE for my hills and loop. When keeping height the same for all drops in a simulation but only changing the mass of the car, your speed will not change. This is because it's still catching the same amount of air force and gravity as a car with a different mass. Then being pulled down after each drop, hill, and loop. The law of conservation of energy affected my design by showing at the top of my initial drop there was all PE as in stored energy waiting for release. Then transfers halfway down my initial drop when there is some PE but it's getting changed out for KE. At the bottom of my initial drop leading to my loop, there is only KE because all PE was released when the car reached the bottom. At the top of my loop the PE and KE are split again getting ready to release and turn back into KE in order to make it up my hills. This works so my PE can build and release to keep my car moving throughout the rest of the ride and slowly decrease my hill height so there's enough energy to make it over. This being said, your total energy will be the same at the top and bottom of your ride if your mass is the same. So I think starting at a fun but safe height and slowly decreasing hill and loop heights will work best because not only will it be fun there will be enough total energy to continue throughout the whole ride. 