Hello, here are my final decisions for the steel dragon rollarcoaster! My decision on the final drop height is that it will be 3.5 meters. I chose this because the higher the drop height, the greater the speed and energy, which would mean more enjoyment for thrill seekers. I know this because when I tested the drop height at 3 meters, the speed at the bottom of drop was 7.61 meters, meaning it was still safe, but not as enjoyable for people wanting to ride a scary ride. So, I tested the drop height at 4 meters, and at the bottom of the initial drop the speed was 8.85 meters, which is too fast and not safe. Meaning, 3.5 meters as the initial drop would be right in the middle of both exciting yet still safe. My decision on the hill and loop height is that the hill will be 3 meters and loop height will be 2.5 meters. The drop height affects hill height because when I had a drop height of 2 while the hill was 2.5, the coaster didn't make it up the ride, but when my drop height was 3.5 it did. Hill height affects speed because when my hill height was slightly lower than the intial drop, the ride functioned and was exciting, but when my hill height was higher than initial drop there wasn't enough energy to last the full ride. For car mass, I decided on 60 kg. Mass does not affect energy/speed, height does. I know this because when mass of car was 40 kg, the speed at bottom of initial drop was 8.27, and when mass was 60 kg, the speed was also 8.27. Meaning, mass did not have any affect on speed no matter the mass. Height also increases PE, KE, and TE, and I know this because when my intial drop height was 2 the TE (PE + KE) was 650, and when my initial drop height 5 the TE (PE + KE) was 2443. The energy transfer between PE, KE, and TE was that some of the energy was converted into mechanical energy. I know this because the TE at the start of the ride on one of my data was 883, but the TE at the end was 663. Law of conservation of energy  means that energy is transferred, because energy can never be gained or lost, its always there. So, the energy had to go somewhere, and it went to mechanical energy. Also, the relationship between PE and KE depends on where the coaster is on the ride. If its at the top, it has all PE 0 KE, because the energy is still stored, and hasn't been released. When the coaster is going down hills mid ride it has both, since the stored energy isn't converted fully to KE yet, but also KE got some energy because the ride was in motion. When the ride stopped/hit the bottom of a hill it had full KE 0 PE because all the stored energy transferred to KE, meaning there was 0 PE left. The total energy is combined of PE and KE, and the TE at the start of the ride is always bigger than the bottom, do to the transfer of energy.