Here is my recommendation for the new roller coaster. The coaster should start with a 3.5 M drop, We start with this drop height because the speed of the coaster car doesn't go over the safety limit, In my data Drop Height & Speed I did three trials. In the 1st (drop height of 2m) & the speed got close to the speed requirement with a speed of 6.3m/s. The 3rd trial (drop height of 5m) the speed was 9.9m/s which was too fast , But in the 2nd trial (drop height of 3.5) the speed was 8.3m/s which was just under the speed limit. Additionally, we know the as height increases so does energy. We can see this in our initial drop trials when the PE is 782 J (in trial 1) the KE is also 782 J. When we increase the height of the hill the PE is 1173 J (in trial 2) and so is the KE. This proves that height of the drop relates to the PE at the top. The trials also provide evidence for KE and PE having a direct relationship. We can see yet another relationship in this, throughout the ride the PE and KE both add up to the exact same number as the TE or total energy. As for mass, we found out through our Mass & speed trials that the mass of the car didn't matter. In all three trials of differing weight 40KG, 50KG, and 60KG respectivly all had the same max speed of 8.3m/s. Speacking of mass,  The larger the mass of the car the more energy. our evidence for this is in our mass and energy trials, where in the data we can see that when the mass of the car was increased from 40kg to 50kg. The total energy of the car when from 1957J to 2446J, thus proving that mass has a direct relationship with energy. Furthermore we have decided to give the car a mass of 40 kg. After the initial drop there will be a hill and a loopty loop both with a height of 3m. The height of the hill and loopty loop need to be lower than the initial drop or else the car won't make it through the ride.  We know this is the case because of our "Add a Hill data". In those trials the car only went up the hill when the hill height was lower than or  the drop height, not when it was equal to thus the reason for the slightly shorter hill. The ride will go half way up a ramp then falls back down and does the ride all over again ending where it started with a breaking mechanism.