Dear Mr.Gonzales,

My team and I have some ideas in mind on how to build your family's roller coaster.  First, the initial drop height will be 3.5 meters.  This is because at this height then with this height then the potential energy at the top of the drop will be 1711 joules.  This means that at the bottom of the drop that kinetic energy will also be 1711 joules.   
                      The higher that the initial drop height will give you the greatest speed.  This is because if you are higher up then you have more potential energy then that will mean you can have more kinetic energy.  Also the higher up you are is the longer you will be going down the drop.  Because of that then you will have more time to create velocity.
                         The total energy that my car will be using to get through the coaster would be 1711 joules.  The potential energy and kinetic energy will be transferring back and forth into the 2 types of energy.  With this energy that max speed that my roller coaster will hit is around 8.26 meters per second which is just around the speed limit so the coaster will go really fast but not to fast.
                   We want the hill height to be 2.5 meters and the loop height to be 2.25.  This is because all the drops in the coaster need to be descending in height. None of the hills can have a greater height than 3.5.  This is because the car will not have enough energy to get over the hills and complete the ride.  The energy that you have at the beginning of the ride is the only energy that you will have throughout the entire ride.  The law of conservation of energy backs this up by saying that energy cannot be created or destroyed just changes forms.
                For the mass of our car will be 50 kg.  This is because when you increase your mass you will also increase your total energy.  This will affect the speed of our roller coaster because if you increase the mass then you will increase the potential energy which can be turned into kinetic energy which impacts speed.  If you have more kinetic energy then you will have more speed.
              Thank you for your time  I hope that this explanation of the physics in roller coaster will help you and my team to build your families roller coaster.