Gonzales Family we have come to a conclusion on the design of your roller coaster. First of all the height of the initial drop will be 3.5 meters tall. This is because it reaches the required speed while not being too fast to hurt the passengers. We know this because, during a trial with an initial drop height of 3.5 meters, the max speed the car experienced was 8.26 m/s. Then during a trial with a drop height of 4 meters, the cars max speed was 8.84 m/s which is too fast for your passengers to ride on safely. 
          Next, the height of the hill will be 3 meters high. This is because the hill needs to be less than the initial drop. For example in a trial where the initial drop height was 4 meters, and the hill height was 4 meters the car didn't make it over. Then when the hill height was changed to 3 meters the car safely made it to the end of the ride. So the hill needs to be less than the initial drop or it won't make it over. 
          Now the length of the hill and drop will be the steepest they can be. This is because during our trials with initial drop height, we used the steepest measurements and that's what helped make the coaster its best.
           For the mass of the car, we have figured out that it doesn't matter what you choose. This is because it takes more energy for the heavier object to move and its all comparative. For example in a trial with a mass of 60kg, the car went at a max speed of 8.26 m/s. Then when the car was 40kg the car went the same max speed of 8.26 m/s. So from this, we know that the mass of the car doesn't matter and you can choose the mass.
          The reason we chose 3.5 meters as the drop height also plays into PE, KE, total energy, and speed. The higher the height is the more PE, total energy which leads to more KE and speed for the car. So we found that 3.5 meters makes enough PE for the car to be fast enough but not too fast. 
         Mass also affects PE, KE, and total, but not speed. Mass is a factor in both of the equations for PE, and KE, but from our earlier trials, we know that mass doesn't affect speed. When the mass is raised it also increases the PE, and KE, but because its heavier it will take more energy to move the car. So that's why mass's relationship with PE, and KE is comparative. 
        The relationship with PE, KE, and total energy is that in a frictionless environment like we have PE + KE will equal total energy. This is because of the Law of Conservation of Energy as it states in a closed environment no energy will be created nor destroyed only transferred. So since we have no friction the energy can only transfer between PE and KE so that's why PE + KE = Total energy. 
         