For your roller coaster, the initial drop height should be 2.75. PE is determined by its position so when you increase the height so does the amount of PE the object has. I know that this would be an ideal height because, throughout the decline, the speed never reaches 8.4 m/s and is above 6.7 m/s. This would guarantee a safe yet exciting ride for its riders. We know that PE is determined by its position. The more height that is added to a hill, loop, or initial drop will increase the KE because of the Law of Conservation of Energy. The law of Conservation of energy states that the total energy of a system remains the same. Because the total energy in a system remains the same the PE transfers to KE once the object is in motion. If friction is at play then we see that object's energy moving into thermal energy. Because KE is due to its motion we can see that when that there will be an energy transfer from PE and KE throughout the ride. Energy can never be lost or gained. My design works hand and hand with the law, showing that through the transfer between energy in PE and KE. We can see that specifically in the loop. My design has a height of 2.5 meters for its loop. At the top of this loop, the KE the cart has from its motion down the initial drop is used to propel the cart up the loop. Once the cart is at the top, PE takes over. The KE is transferred to the PE due to its position and then once again transferred back to KE as the cart is going back down. Next, we have the hill. The hill will have a height of 2.5 meters to guarantee that the cart will make it throughout the ride. After the hill, we will have a flat surface to finish the ride. Throughout this ride, the cart will have a mass of 50 kg. We know that whether you increase or decrease the mass, the cart's total energy will remain the same. In an experiment where we decreased and increased the amount of mass our cart had and kept the ride's initial drop height and length the same, the total energy was kept constant. Therefore, the mass of the cart has no effect on the roller coaster's speed or energy.