My team has developed the optimal roller coaster design based on science. My roller coaster design has an initial drop height of 3.5 meters. I chose this height because the higher your initial drop is, the more PE you will have. When you have more PE at the top, you will also have more KE at the bottom. I saw this in my data when I did a drop height of 2 meters I only had 977 J of PE at the top and 977 J of KE at the bottom. However, when I had a drop height of 5 meters I had 2443 J of PE at the top and 2443 J of KE at the bottom. With that said, we found that a drop height higher than 3.5 meters caused unsafe riding conditions because the car was moving too fast, after finding this we settled on a 3.5 m initial drop as the perfect drop height.
From our trials, we have seen that our drop height must be higher than the loop height and the hill height must be taller than the hill height. From our data, we saw that any hill height that was lower than the drop could be used and the car would make it to the end. However, as soon as the hill is higher than or the same as the drop height, the car will not reach the end. For example, when the initial drop was 5m and the hill height was 4m the car had no problem going over it. But when the initial drop height was 5m and the hill height was also 5m the car was not able to go over the hill. This same logic applies to the hill being smaller than the loop, in that as you through the ride your features must get smaller to ensure you have enough energy to finish the ride. With this knowledge, we had our coaster start with an initial drop of 3.5m, go into a 2.5m loop, then have a 2m hill and then come to a stop.
We chose a car mass of 50 kg because it means we will have a moderate amount of energy. We have seen that the more mass the car has, the more PE, KE, and total energy it will have. We see this in our data because the car mass of 40 kg only had 1956 j of PE and KE. When we had a car mass of 60 kg we had 2934 j of PE and KE. We have also seen that mass will have no effect on speed. This is because when you set PE and KE equal to each other, mass cancels out of the equation. We have seen this when we had a car mass of 40 kg our speed at the end of the ride was 8.26 m/s and when we had a car mass of 60kg we also had a speed of 8.26 m/s.
The higher your initial drop is, the more KE, PE, Total energy, and speed you will have. I saw this in my data when I had a drop height of 2 meters I only had 977 J of PE at the top and 977 J of KE at the bottom. However, when I had a drop height of 5 meters I had 2443 J of PE at the top and 2443 J of KE at the bottom of the drop. The total energy will increase the higher your drop is, but it will never change during the ride. This is seen when we have a drop height of 2 meters we have 977 J of energy and when we have a drop of 5 meters we have 2443 J of energy. We have also seen that the higher the drop, the faster the car will go because when we had a drop height of 3m our speed at the bottom of the drop was 7.66 m/s but when the drop height was 5 m the speed at the bottom of the drop was 9.87 m/s.
As we go down the drop we see the PE go from a large number of joules down to none. This is because the formula for finding PE includes height so the higher you are the more PE you have. Throughout the drop, KE increases from 0 j to the amount of j that you had of PE at the top of the drop. We can see this in our data when we see that in one of our trials, we started with 977 joules of PE and ended with 0 j. In this trial, we also started with 0 j of KE throughout the drop and increased to 977 j at the bottom.
We have seen that our total energy can not change because of the Law of Conservation of Energy. We see in our trials that if we have a total energy of 977 j, even though the KE and PE transfer back and forth throughout the drop, the total energy will never change from 977 j. This is because energy cannot be created nor destroyed as stated in the Law of Conservation of Energy.
To conclude, we have made a roller coaster with a car mass of 50 kg, and a ride that starts with a drop height of 3.5 meters, goes into a 2.5m loop, and ends by going through a 2m loop. We have chosen this because it will provide a safe and exciting ride for all who ride it.

