Height affects PE and KE, because the taller the height of the initial drop the more PE and KE there is, and the shorter the height of the initial drop the less PE and KE there will be. Height affects speed and total energy because if there is more PE and KE then there is more speed and more total energy, if there is less PE and KE there is less speed and less total energy. For example when my initial drop height was 4 m the speed at the end of the ride was 8.85. When the initial drop height was 3 m the speed at the end of the ride was 7.64. The mass of the car affects the PE, KE, total energy and speed because the speed of the car will always stay the same, or close to the same no matter on the mass. The mass always stays the same because gravity always has the same amount of force on objects no matter the mass of the object. If the speed of the car is always the same then so is the PE, KE and total energy because the speed determines the PE, KE and total energy. For example when the mass of the car was 40 kg the speed at the end of the ride was 8.41. When the mass of the car was 60 kg the speed at the end of the ride was 8.41. The relationship between PE, KE and total energy is if there is no friction the PE transfers to KE then back to PE at the end of the ride. If there is friction then when the PE is transferring to KE some of the energy transfers to thermal energy. Then when the KE transfers back to PE the PE is lower than it started. The law of conservation of energy states that no energy is created or destroyed. When the energy at the end of the roller coaster is less than it started with, that means that the energy transferred to thermal energy. The mass of the car does not matter because the mass does not affect the roller coaster. The height of the initial drop should be 3.62 because that is the highest the initial drop can be and that makes it the most fun without killing the passengers. For example when the height was 3.65 the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.44 which will kill all the passengers. 