Hey Mr. Gonzalez! For the initial drop height I would have it at 3.5 meters. When the car is at 3.5 meters it is at a safe height where the speed does not increase over 8.4 m/s. When the car's speed is over 8.4 m/s the ride becomes unsafe. When the initial drop height is at 3.5 meters, the speed of the car is 8.26 m/s. This is under 8.4 m/s which makes the ride safe but still very enjoyable for the rider. The total energy that the car starts with is the total energy that the car ends with in a frictionless environment. The initial drop height has to be higher than the other hills or loops on the roller coaster for the car to make it to the end of the track. Total energy and potential energy have a direct relationship because when the potential energy increases so does the total energy. Height and potential energy also have a direct relationship because when the height increases or is higher, the potential energy increases or is higher. The equation mxgxh is used to find the potential energy. The equation proves that potential energy and height have a direct relationship because when the height is greater the product of multiplying it by the mass and gravity will be greater too.Therefore the height of the initial drop should be 3.5 meters. 
For my roller coaster design, I would have a hill come after the inital drop. The height of the hill should be 3 meters. This is because it is under 3.5 meters and because it would also keep the speed of the car safe. The law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created nor destroyed, it can only be converted. In the real world, the environment is not frictionless. When the car moves down the hill and the potential energy is being converted into kinetic energy, some of the potential energy is converted into thermal energy. The energy is not lost, it is just converted, so the total energy is still the same as it was at the top of the initial drop. That is why the the hill height should be 3 meters. 
Next, I would have a loop. The loop should be 2 meters because it makes the speed safe, and it is under 3.5 meters. Kinetic energy and total energy also have a direct relationship as well as kinetic energy and potential energy. When the kinetic energy is greater, the total energy is too, and when the potential energy is greater, the kinetic energy is too. This means that kinetic energy and height also have a direct relationship because potential energy and kinetic energy have a direct relationship so when the height is greater the kinetic energy will be too. That is why the height of the loop should be 2 meters. 
The mass of the car should be 45 kg. The mass of the car does not affect the speed of the car so they do not have a relationship. People think that heavier things fall faster but that is not true. When the height of the drop was at 3.5 meters and the mass of the car was 50 kg, the speed was 8.26. With the same height of the drop at 3.5 and the car mass at 40 kg, the speed of the car was still 8.26. Mass and potential energy have a direct relationship because when the mass is greater the potential energy is too. Kinetic energy also has a direct relationship with mass because when the mass is greater so is the kinetic energy. This proves that mass does not affect the speed and why the mass of the car should be 45 kg. 
