Dear Gonzales family

Hello, Gonzales family my roller coaster team is back with our final proposals and decisions for your ride. 
Our first proposal is for the initial drop height we propose to be 3.59 meters high. Our reasoning behind this tall is all do safety and speed. When we look at safety our speed must be below 8.4(m/s) and with this we noticed that 3.59 is just below 8.4 (m/s). So the reason we want it to be faster but safe is so people can have a more enjoyable ride. We also know that a taller drop height will give us more speed. for example, when we did a trial of an initial drop at 5 the speed was 9.89 m/s but when we put it at 4 the speed was only 8.79 m/s. So when testing we would lower the height to lower the speed and make the drop taller for a greater speed.

Our next proposal is for the car's mass. When we did many of our data experiments on mass and speed we noticed that speed never changed based on mass. This is because all masses receive the same gravity force, making all items fall at the same speed. therefore the mass could really be anything but we said it should be 50kg. However, the mass does not help with the speed it does affect the amount of energy our cart has so we wanted more mass for more energy. Something we do know is that mass and speed relationship is that mass does not affect our speed. We saw this when we added mass to our car the speed would still be the same as when we lowered the mass.

another reason we propose our initial drop height as high as we can get it to be still safe is for our energy. Since looking at hills last time we noticed the initial drop must be shorter than the hill height because we can not create or destroy energy. we noticed the greater the initial drop the total energy we had. at the top of our initial drop, there will be all our energy in PE because it is the energy at rest in a direction. but once it moves down are drop all that energy will transfer into KE but total energy will never change as it cannot be created nor destroyed.

Next for our hill height, we recommend it is at 3. This because it is shorter than 3.59 so are car can easily make it over and still have a fun amount of speed. we also chose 3 because we had made lots of are test runs at this height and we know that the hill height can be anything lower than the initial drop. The law of conversation and mass affects this aspect of our roller coaster because the law states energy cannot be created nor destroyed so we know that we cannot create more energy for a hill that's taller than our initial drop. That is why the hill is shorter than our initial drop.

Even though our mass does not play a role in speed it does in energy. More mass will give is ride more energy and make it easier to go through our loops, hills, and the whole ride together. Since we know energy cannot be created we want all the energy we can get so we recommend the mass to be 50kg.

We also wanted to let you know some of the info on our energy. from our data, we know that the relationship between PE and KE plays important role In the coaster. at the top of the initial drop, all our energy will be PE energy while kinetic energy will be 0j because the roller coaster is not in motion. However, once it moves down the hill all that stored PE energy will slowly move to KE until it reaches the bottom and there will be 0j on PE. However, the energy will always add up to the same amount of total energy. 
Even if the PE and KE move back and forth total energy will never change and when the ride starts that all the energy are ride will get because energy cannot be created nor destroyed.

the order for our ride we want it to be the initial drop, loop, and hill, so we can have the most speed to get us over, are loop.

Thank you for your time Gonzales family. 
