I chose the initial drop to be 3.5m because there is a direct relationship between the height of the initial drop and the potential energy the car has at the top of the drop. A direct relationship is when both the height of the initial drop and the potential energy both go up or both go down. I know this because my data shows a the height gets bigger the potential energy also gets bigger. When the release height was 2.25 the potential energy was 1189 J and when the height was 398 the potential energy was 2211 J. 
 For the hill height I chose 2 m because no matter the height the car would get over the hill. From my data i found that when the initial drop was 4 and the hill height was 2 the car made it over easily. 4 is about in the middle of our options. When the initial drop was 4 and the hill height was 2 the car did make it over and when the hill height was 5 is did not make it over so I chose 4 m and 2 m. The height effects the PE because the higher the hill the higher the PE will be greater. The hill height effects the KE because the higher the hill bill be the more KE the car will have at the bottom. The height effects the total energy because the higher the hill the more the total energy it will have. The height effects the speed because the higher the hill the faster it will go. 
For the mass of the car I chose 50 kg. There is a direct relationship between the mass of the car and the potential energy the car has at the top of the initial drop. I know this because as the mass was a constant weight of 50 kg the potential energy went form 1189 J to 2775 J. There is a direct relationship between the mass of the car and the kinetic energy the car has at the bottom of the initial drop. I know this because when the weight of the car (50 kg) was constant the kinetic energy went form 1188 J to 2774 J.
The total energy will be the same as the potential energy the car has at the top of the initial drop when there is no friction. The total energy will be the same as the kinetic energy the car has at the bottom of the initial drop with no friction. When the PE at the top or KE at the bottom was 1956 J the total energy was also 1956 J. 
For the Energy Transformation and Law of Conservation of energy we know that energy can not be created or destroyed. Throughout the roller coaster the PE turns in to KE throughout the whole ride. For the initial drop we are doing 3.5 m. Then we have a loop that is going to be 1 m. After that we will have two hills, one 2 m and one 1 m. The mass of our car is going to be 60 kg. We chose the heights because we knew that the car would go over because the hill heights were shorter then the initial drop. The mass was random because it doesn't effect anything. The relationship between PE and KE is an inverse relationship. this effects our ride because when the car goes up the hill the PE increases and the KE decreases. When the car is going down the KE increases and PE decreases. The Law of Conservation of Energy affected out decision   because we had to make the ride not only fun but safe as well. Mass and speed do not have any relationship, it doesn't matter the weight the speed will be the same. 