    Hello Gonzales family, My team and I have finally decided on a design for the roller coaster.  We will be doing an initial drop, a loop, a hill and then the roller coaster will end.  
    First, the initial drop height, our team has chosen a drop height of 3 m.  In  my data, when we did a test where the initial drop height was 4 m, the speed at the end of the ride was 8.84 m/s. That speed was too fast for the ride to be safe.  Then in a test where the initial drop height was 2 m, the speed at the end of the ride was inconclusive because the car couldn't make it to the end of the ride.  Then in our test where the initial drop height was 3 m, the speed at the end of the ride was 7.66, which is perfect for the ride.  
   An initial drop height of 3 m would also give a good amount of PE, KE, and TE.  In a test where the initial drop height was 3 m, the PE at the top of the initial drop was 1,466 J and the KE was 0 J. Then at the bottom of the initial drop, the PE was 1 J and the KE was 1,456 J. The total energy throughout the ride being 1,466 J. Then in another test where the initial drop height was 4 m, the PE at the top of the initial drop height was 1,955 J and the KE was 0 J, the .  Then at the bottom of the initial drop, the PE was 1 J and the KE was 1,954 J. The total energy of that test being 1,955 J.  This shows that When the height increases, then the energy increases. 
    This also shows that when traveling up the roller coaster, PE goes up, and KE goes down. It also shows that when traveling down the roller coaster, KE goes up, PE goes down.  The relationship between KE and PE is a great example of the 'Law of Conservation of Energy', which is that energy can not be created or destroyed on turned into a different form of energy. It also shows that total energy will always stay the same throughout the ride and will not change even when PE and KE are changing. 
    Then after the initial drop height, there will be a hill with a height of 2.5 m.  In a test where the initial drop height was 5 m and the hill height was also 5 m, the car was not able to make it over the hill.  But then in a different test where the initial drop height was 5 m and the hill height was 4 m, the car was able to make it over the hill. This is because since the car is moving there is KE and since it is off the ground there is also PE, meaning that it won't be able to make it over the hill.  We will then make a loop that will be 2 m, for the same reasons. 
    The mass of the car will be 40 kg, since the mass doesn't affect the speed of the car.  In one of my tests where the mass was 40 kg, (the of the initial drop and the height of the hill staying the same) the speed at the end of the ride was 7.65 m/s. Then on another test where the mass of the car was 50 kg, the speed at the end of the ride was also 7.65 m/s. This shows that the mass of the car doesn't affect the speed on the ride. So we decided on 40 kg since it will probably be less expensive.
    But mass does affect the amount of PE, KE and TE in the roller coaster. In a test where the mass the car was 60 kg, the PE at the top of the initial drop was 2,936 J and at the bottom it was 2,930 J of KE. The total energy being 2,936 J. Then in a different test where the mass of the car was 50 kg, the PE at the top was 2,446 J and then at the bottom it was 2441 of KE. The total energy being 2,446 J.  This shows that the more mass there is the more PE, KE and TE.
