My group and I started at 50 kg, we chose 50 kg based on our data because there would be more energy. But if we made the mass lower than 50, like 45 or 40 there would be a lot less potential energy and kinetic energy. According to our data, with 50 kg. The speed at the bottom of the initial drop was a 7.66, and at the top of the hill, it was 3.10. 

For our initial drop height we chose 3 m, because it's a good median. We didn't want to have the drop height be too high, because then the ride could be unsafe for the people who are wanting to ride the roller coaster. We just needed the initial drop height to be higher than the hill height, otherwise the cart wasn't going to make it over the hill, and if there was no friction on the cart. The cart would just keep going back and fourth forever until another force acts on the cart to stop it.

But the way that the initial drop height effects the Potential energy and kinetic energy. "The higher the drop height, the higher the speed at the bottom of the hill is going to be", so there is going to be more kinetic energy at the bottom of the initial drop if its higher. The height of the roller coaster transfers from potential energy to kinetic energy. (Initial drop at the top, to the bottom of the initial drop. Top of the hill, bottom of the hill) 

Mass affects the energy of a roller coaster. Depending on how much mass the cart has, at the initial drop the potential energy goes up. But if the mass is less the potential energy goes down. Since we had a mass of 50 kg, the potential energy goes up. 

The relationship between PE,KE, and total energy is, The relationship between PE, KE, and mass was the higher the mass and the drop height made the PE or KE change in the amount of energy they had.

The law of conservation of energy is "energy can neither be created nor destroyed - only converted from one form of energy to another." This affects my design because I had to change where and when in the roller coaster i placed the hills, loops, and turns.
