Dear Gonzales family after all of the research that has been done I will propose the best most safe roller coaster for your family. In a friction-less environment, your initial drop height should be as high as possible with still keeping the speed in a range of 6.7 m/s to 8.4 m/s. To do this your initial drop height should be 3.25 meters, with this drop height your speed at the bottom of the drop will be 7.36 m/s. If you go higher than 3 meters the speed will also increase. The higher the initial drop is the more speed there will be at the bottom of the drop and at the top of the hill. We know that the height of the hill must be shorter than the initial drop height. Therefore, I recommend a hill height of 2 meters to ensure your car makes it to the end of the ride with enough speed. As we have learned so far, the hill height must be less than the initial drop height and the loop must also be shorter than the initial drop height. However, the loop can be taller than the hill height. A loop height of 2.75 will keep the ride fun without slowing the ride down too much. Mass of the car will not affect the speed and therefore I used a mass of 60 kg. The higher the initial drop height is the more potential energy there will be at the top of the drop. The higher the initial drop height is the more KE there will be at the bottom. For example, when the initial drop height was 5 meters, the PE at the top of the drop was 2928 J and the KE at the bottom of the initial drop was 2926 J. However, when the initial drop height was 2 meters the PE at the top was 1171 J and the KE at the bottom of the drop was 1170 J. The higher the initial drop is the faster the car will be. The mass of the car will not affect the speed of the ride. I know this because of gravitational pull always being 9.8 m/s, so no matter the mass the gravity will remain the same. When I had a mass of 60 kg the speed at the bottom was 7.97 m/s. When I had a mass of 40 kg the speed at the bottom was also 7.97 m/s. There is a direct relationship between mass and kinetic energy. I know this because in the equation to find KE you do 1/2 of the mass then multiply it by the square of velocity. There is also a direct relationship between mass and PE because similar to KE the equation for PE is mass times gravity times height. PE plus KE equal TE and therefore mass is also directly related to TE. There is a direct relationship between PE, KE, and TE. In a closed system total energy is always going to be the same. Total energy is always going to be the sum of PE and the KE. I know this because the roller coaster is a closed system meaning PE and KE are being transferred. When the car descends the stored PE is being transferred into KE and then back again when the car goes up the hill. The Law of Conservation of energy states the energy cannot be created or destroyed. For example, when there is an initial drop of 5 meters the KE at the top of the drop was zero, yet the KE at the bottom of the drop was 2926 joules. Similar how at the top of drop the PE is 2928 joules and the PE at the bottom was 2 joules. This shows us that energy did not go anywhere but instead was transferred. Energy was not created but it was stored. Throughout the whole ride energy transfer is taking place. This is what I recommend to the Gonzales family to create the best safe roller coaster that makes it to the end.