I think we should have 4 total parts of the roller coaster. The height for the initial drop should be 3.5 meters because that is the highest it can go without being dangerous. As shown in our data the max speed we are able to reach in this height is 8.27 which is safe for our passengers. For the height of the first hill we should do 2.5 meters because we are able to get over the hill without falling backward. This is because the hill height is shorter than the initial drop. For the height of the loop I think 2.25 meters will be perfect, our car can get over it easily as shown in our trials. This is because the loop is shorter than the previous hill. For the height of the final hill I think we should do 1 meter to have a little extra fun while still being able to get over it. All of these heights have been proven by the trials we had. This is because the hill is shorter than the previous loop. For the mass I think 50 kg will be fine because as it was shown in the data the more you increase the mass the speed does not changes. This is because of the fact that the formula for speed does not include mass in it, meaning that the mass and speed have no relationship. However the more mass the more potential energy we get. Meaning that we would have more kinetic energy and total energy. The more height we have also gives us more potential energy as we go higher up. Meaning we will have more kinetic energy and total energy. Also the higher we go in the height the more potential energy we have. Meaning we will have more kinetic energy and total energy. The relationship between potential, kinetic, and total energy affects our ride. It affects our ride because when we have a lot of potential energy at the top of the hill it gets converted to kinetic energy. As we travel down the hills the potential energy get converted into kinetic energy. Also at certain points in the ride some kinetic energy get converted into potential energy. But as this all happens the total energy stays the same because we are in a friction free place. This affects our ride because now we know how certain energy is used in the ride. We know all of this because of the Law of Conservation of Energy. It states that no energy can be created nor destroyed, energy can only change if it is converted. That is why as we go down the hill a lot of our energy is converted. So using this knowledge we know that if we have more potential energy at certain points in the roller coaster, we will have more kinetic energy.
