Hello Gonzales Family, 
          After conducting many experiments, our team has been able to put together an accurate picture of what your roller coaster will look like.
          To begin let us talk about mass and height. Based on our trails, your initial drop height should be at a length of 2.4 m and a height of 3.59 m. These measurements will give your cart enough potential energy to make it to the end of the ride, but not too much to the point where the cart is going too fast. In order to have a safe roller coaster, the speed of the cart must stay under 8.4 m/s/s. When looking at our data placing the drop height at 3.6 m and length at 2.4 m, we got a speed of exactly 8.4 m/s/s, and for it to be below that the drop height must be 3.59 m tall. The mass of your car for the ride will not matter as it does not affect the speed. In our trials when we kept all variables the same excluding the mass, the final speed always came out to 8.26 m/s/s at the end of the ride.
           Next, the higher the height, the more PE and KE the cart will have. As the height increases, the amount of PE in an object increases when the object is still. The potential energy will then transfer to KE once in motion. KE and PE will always equal the Total Energy, so at the top of a drop the PE will be your TE and the KE will be 0. As the cart moves down the hill and increases speed from KE, the PE will drop and the KE will go up, still equaling that TE.
           The effect of mass on speed. The Mass of your car will NOT impact the speed of the car. As stated earlier during our trials, when we kept all variables the same instead of mass, the speed was always the same at the end of the ride. However, mass does affect KE, PE, and TE. As the more mass an object has, the greater gravitational pull there is on the object. This means that the PE will be greater at the top of the hill because gravity will be pulling with greater force. When the object is traveling down the hill the PE will transfer to KE equaling a greater TE than you would have with a lighter mass.
          Lastly, The Law of Conservation of Energy ties into the transfer of energy between PE and KE, which will always equal the total energy no matter where the cart is on the track. As stated in the law, energy cannot be created or destroyed.
           Thank you for having us design your roller coaster!