Ok, I'll be doing this right off the list.
Height AND PE(potential energy) are DIRECTLY (one goes up the other goes up) related. Meaning that if you were to say like 100'(feet) in the air, you'd have more PE than you would have while on the ground. And the more PE you have the more KE(kinetic energy) you have.
Second, the relationship between PE and KE is kinda weird. let me explain. Sure when goes up so does the other. But in doing so you also increase the amount of other energies that the object can't use and will ultimately be useless. But that's beside the point. When one goes up, I'm just going to use PE for the ease of this explanation, with the more height the more PE. More PE means you have more PE to transfer into other forms of energy. The primary being KE. Now, I'm aware this is just repetitive, but I'm doing this to make sure that the point gets across. 
Now TE (total energy) is just the max amount of energy the object can have at any point. An example is where your amount of TE will be like 1,000 at the top of a hill. At the middle or bottom of the hill, it's still 1,00 joules of energy. Just in different forms such as thermal energy, PE, KE, and noise energy.
And how the law of energy transfer works, you must first understand how the law of energy conservation works. And it works a little like this: It states that you CAN NOT under ANY circumstances be able to destroy energy. It's ALWAYS there. Just in different forms. And how that works is with the law of transfer. It states that if the law of conservation is true, that means all forms of energy will transfer. PERIOD.
And with the relationship between initial drop height and hill height is a good way to put the laws into action. You NEED to have a higher initial drop if you want to get over ANY hill whatsoever. If you've got a smaller drop then you won't have enough PE and KE to get over the hill. This means you will come to a stop after rocking a tad bit after failing to get over the hill. You will always need more height(or a boost) than the hill to get over said hill.
And time for a big shocker, mass, and energy ARE related. Again they're DIRECTLY related at that. More mass means more PE and KE. Although that does SOMETIMES mean you'll get over a hill easier. Depending on the amount of track between the drop(or other hills) and the hill that's coming up.
Now the drop height kinda won't affect how fast it goes in terms of speed, or acceleration. With a low drop, you'll get a short acceleration in general. Now you may have a good velocity if you had a push. But even without one. You'll be given a 9.8 m/s/s. The point is drop height shouldn't change the drop speed. It may affect acceleration if it's a small drop but not speed.
FINALLY! LAST ONE! Mass and speed aren't related either. May seem like it but it's truly not. Again gravity WILL win against the fighting force of mass in terms of speed.