Dear Gonzalez Family,
I presume you are wondering what makes my rollercoaster run as it does. You may need to know some things before going through with your coaster to avoid relying on the wrong things. I am implying the energy you will need to generate to get your roller coaster to start efficiently, and how that energy will become a big part of your coaster. To start off, based on my previous data from my last car experiments, your height and mass decisions become a big part of your coaster. The height that you choose will determine how much velocity your coaster will gain, but the mass on the other hand, itself, will not have any part in making your coaster go faster. In my data, mass is shown to increase, making the speed at all parts of the drops the same. for example, data shows that when I changed my mass from 45 to 55, it was the same velocity on the bottom of the drop and the end of the hill. as well as all of the different masses calculating the speed at the top of the hill. The speeds that were the same on the bottom of the drop and end of the hill were at a rate of 8.42.
Continuing with height, height affects speed, as well as Pe, Ke, and total energy. For example, my data shows that with increasing height, the amount of Pe and Ke being converted into each other also increases. Since the total energy is always the same as the total amount of potential energy, that will also increase when height increases. The drop height determines all speed and motion.
Mass as well as height, affects Pe, Ke, and total energy. But mass does not determine speed. The more mass that is collected, the slower the velocity is. Mass affects Pe by making it decrease. Mass also affects Ke, also making it decrease. Mass decreases what is being converted into one another.
The energy transfer between Pe and Ke determines almost every aspect of the coaster. The potential energy determines the total amount of energy being transferred into kinetic energy. The total energy is determined by how much potential energy there is. No energy is created, nor destroyed within these three variables.  The Law of Conservation of Energy represents this process. The Law of Conservation of Energy affects our designs by keeping as much energy that is created from the initial drop within the car. It is shown by how much velocity, speed, kinetic energy, potential energy, and total energy there is.  
I appreciate your concern on my behalf regarding these experiments. My data has collected much that I have learned about the process of the coasters.