After carefully examining the information we gathered from many tests and essays here are the suggestions I would give to the Gonzales family.

I would first suggest that the initial drop of the roller coaster to be 3.5 meters in height.
I say this because the higher the initial drop is the more potential energy the car is given.
And when the potential energy is higher that means the kinetic energy will also be raised as well.
And because kinetic energy is the energy of motion it means the car will go at an exciting speed.
And with 3.5 meters in height because it would be the safest while still giving a speed of 8.27 m/s and not going over the speed that is considered dangerous 
I would next suggest a mass of around 50 kg for the car.
This is because when friction is a factor (which is all the time) a small mass would decrease the potential energy at the top and as well as the kinetic energy and speed.
But a car that is too heavy the friction can play a factor and slow the car down causing the ride to be more dangerous and the ride not being as enjoyable.
For example when I tested a car with a weight of 50 kg and a hill height of 3.5 meters and the friction set at 5 I had a total energy and kinetic energy of around 1711 joules.
But when I had a car with a weight of 60 kg and a hill height of 3.5 meters and the same friction the car had a total energy of 2053 joules but a kinetic energy of 1427 joules.
A higher total energy means more kinetic and potential energy because the kinetic energy plus the potential energy and other sources of energy at one time equals the total energy.
The total energy will always stay the same because no matter what any of the energy is transferred into because energy cannot be created or destroyed.
The mass of the car affects the speed as well because when there is more potential energy because of mass then there will be more kinetic energy because of mass.
And because kinetic energy results in more speed then the mass does affect the speed.




