In my research I have found that height does affect the speed of an object. For example, when my drop height was 4 meters the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.85 m/s. Also, when my drop height was 5 meters the speed at the bottom at the drop was 9.87 m/s. The speed increases when the height of the drop increases because of gravity. When the drop height is higher gravity has to pull the car to earth farther which makes it have more time to speed up. The drop height also affects the energy of the car. When the drop height was 2.5 meters the total energy was 1026 J and when the drop height was 5 meters the total energy was 2928 J. This happens because when the height is higher the car must have more energy to reach the ground so when the height is increased the energy is increased. Also, before the car is dropped it only has PE so then the height affects PE and that PE transfers to KE throughout the ride so that is also affected. Total energy is the combined energy in a system to it is also affected by drop height. On the other hand mass does not effect the speed of the car but it does effect the energy. In my data when the mass was 40 kg the speed at the end of the ride was 8.84 m/s. When the mass was 60 kg the speed at the end of the ride was also 8.84 m/s. Mass does not affect speed because no matter what gravity is pulling the car to the earth so the mass won't affect how fast the car moves to the ground. Mass affects all types of energy because in order to calculated PE and KE there equations use mass. PE's equation is PE=MGH and KE's equation is 1/2M times velo squared. Total energy is all energy combined so it is affected by mass. As stated before PE is stored energy before the drop but then when the car drops the energy turns to KE because the car is in motion and the energy isn't stored. This is called the Law of conservation of energy which states energy is not destroyed it just transferring. The total energy does not get any bigger or smaller in a system and the energy just transfers. After all of this I have decided on my suggestions for your roller coaster. For the drop height it should be 3.5 if taller the speed will become unsafe. For the hill height it should be 2.5 so the car can get over the track. If the drop height is taller than the hill the car will get over because in my research when the hill and drop were both 4 m tall the car did not get over the hill. This happens because if the drop height is shorter than the hill height the car will not have enough energy to get over because it did not start with enough energy. If the car doesn't have enough energy it can't get over the higher hill. As stated before the mass won't affect the speed so it does not matter as much so I decided on 50 kg. 