I believe that the height of the drop should be 3.25 meters because it would mean that you would be able to make a bunch of hills and loops. Also because when that is the drop height should be 3.25 meters that the speed will be great enough to make it over most of the hills you want it to.  
The higher height is, it would make the KE at the start larger then the PE at the beginning. Accept, when the coaster got to the bottom of the hill. In the end the KE would be 0 and the PE would be what ever the KE was at the start. 
The mass of the coaster should be 50 kg. The mass does not effect the speed but it makes the start faster.  Also there would be a little bit less PE. Also when the mass is 50 kg because when the transfer of PE to KE is happening the would take less time to because it would have less to transfer.
The total energy would be the same as the PE and KE added.This is only because there is not friction. Then as you went down the hill all the PE would be transferred into KE.  
Even though you don't have friction there is not other type of energy that this could form into like heat energy.  This means that it will be able to hit the speeds to still have it be fun but also not to dangerous. 

The drop height of my roller coaster design is 5 meters. This is because when you have a high drop height it means that the rest of your roller coaster could be longer because there will be more energy so that you can have a longer track. For example, when I tested the drop height to 2 meters there was only a PE of 977 joules. When I increased the drop height to 5 meters there was 2443 joules, the PE increased by 1466 joules. When the coaster goes down the hill it will lose almost all of it PE, so the next hill or loop that you decide to make would have to have a slightly smaller height. Other wise it won't make it with the amount of KE it has left. Another thing that would have to be thought about is the weight, because with it being too heavy would mean that it might not make it up the next hill. One thing that I recommend is having a 47-53 kg car so it will have enough weight but not too much.