Mr and Mrs Gonzales you asked us to make you a roller coaster design that has safety while still being fun along with 1 initial drop, 1 hill and 1 loop and we made it happen.

Our team came to a decision about the drop height it will be 4.5 Meters. the reason we chose this is because at the 5 Meter drop the Roller coaster car was moving at a Speed of 9.89 Meters per second witch is unsafe for our riders. Along with the 5 Meter drop we tried a 4 Meter drop witch had the Roller coaster car moving at 8.84 Meters Per second witch was too slow for the aspect of fun. With that information we decided to meet in the middle between those two drop heights at 4.5 Meters witch had a Cart speed of 9.37 Meters per second witch was just right for the speed and safety aspects. This data shows how the height affects the energy by making more energy. The equation for PE is M times G times H is PE. PE when going down the hill converts into KE, and the equation for KE is 1/2M Times Velocity Squared so that means that when there is more Height there is more PE witch converts into KE to make more velocity. Second we have to talk about loop and hill heights witch are dependent on the initial drop height because the hill and loop height have to be less than 4.5 meters so that the cart can get over the hill. The reason that happens is because if the hill is over 4.5 Meters the car wont have enough energy to make it over because it wont have enough speed. third we have to talk about the mass of the car. the mass of the car is going to 55kg mass does not affect speed it only affects the potential energy. the reason that is is because it takes more energy to make it start moving so if there was a 40kg car and a 50kg car at the same height they would hit the ground at the same time. all though the 50kg car has more Total energy it needs that extra energy to get the car going. finally we have to talk about Energy. the law of conservation of energy like mass states that energy cannot be created or destroyed only changed into different energy. with that PE and KE relate because the PE at the top of the hill is the same as the KE at the bottom of the hill the reason this is relates to the law of energy. because energy can only be changed into other energy's not made or destroyed only changed back to the energy part. the PE when the car is going down the hill turns into KE.
