Dear Gonzales family, 
My team and I have learned a lot over the amount of time that we last spoke. I have come up with some conclusions for the rollercoaster that I would like you to hear. 

The first base I want to touch on is Height and mass decisions and why I think the data is important. The height of the roller coaster determines a lot when talking about this. I think that the initial height for the drop should be 3.25 (m) and the mass of the car should be 48. Based on the data I chose this because I this the ratios would be the best to make the coster fun and exciting. 

The second thing I wanted to touch base with you on is how height affects PE (potential energy), KE (kinetic energy), TE ( total energy), and speed. The height of the drop should be 3.00 because this height gives s good medium that will affect the other variables, but will give a sense of fun. The height of the initial drop will make the coaster car will affect how much the PE is. PE is the amount of energy stored on an object, in this case, the coaster car. I think that if we make the coster 3.00 the PE would be 1585. As the coaster goes down the hill the transfer of energy happens between PE where PE turns into KE. The KE would be 1585 at the bottom of the hill if we are not taking friction into consideration. The total energy of the coster would be the same as the PE because there is nothing in motion or being converted, so the PE has all the energy. depending on all of this data the speed will be a certain number, we might not be sure about that number now but once we test that we will know.  

The third thing I wanted to touch base with you on is how mass affects PE, KE, TE, and speed. The mass of an object is not the weight it is how much that object has. The mass of the object is something that is hard to understand because the mass of the object does not change its speed. PE and KE are where all the energy is, these two are how you can find the speed. The speed is how fast the object is going, also known as velocity. In our test runs the mass is 48(m) at the top of the hill, once the car started moving the speed is 8.27. What I and my team found was amazing. The speed at the bottom of the hill was the same as the speed at the end. When we changed that mass from 48 to 60 the speed was still 8.27, this is because the mass does not affect the speed of the cart. 

The fourth thing I wanted to touch base with you on is the relationship between PE, KE, and TE. This relationship is something that has always been around. TE is how much energy the object has. The PE is how much energy is stored in the object. when the car is not moving the PE would be 1981, this is equal to how much TE there is in that object. This is because the object is not moving, so all the energy would be PE. As the Car starts to move down the hill the PE transfers into KE, this is because the PE is not being stored. KE happens when an object is in motion, in this case, the cart is what is in motion. At the bottom of the hill, the KE would now be 1981and the PE is now 0. The total energy is still the same, so the total energy does not change just the PE and KE dose. 

The fourth and last thing I wanted to touch base on is how the law of conservation of energy affects the design of the coster. How the conservation of energy affects the coster is by total energy. The conservation of energy states that energy can not be created or destroyed. This means that even though PE and KE are being transferred the TE is staying the same due to the conservation of energy.

That is all the information that my team and I have collected. 