Dear Gonzalez Family
Me and my team have figured out the best height for both the drop off and the hill. The drop height will be 3.5 meters tall and the hill height will be 3.0 meters tall so the car has enough speed to make it all the way to the top of the hill and not go to fast that hurts your customers. When we had the height of the drop at 3.5 and the hill height at 3 the max speed the car ever got to was 8.26 m/s. Then once we put the height of the drop at 4 meters and the hill at 3.5 the max speed the car ever got to was 8.84 which would seriously injure your customers or even kill them. When ever we changes the height of the track the total energy went up and when ever we lowered the total height of the track the total energy went down. When we had the height of the hill at 5 meters the total energy was 2062 and when we had the height of the drop at 4 then the total energy was 1642. The total speed of the car also went up for however we high the initial drop was at 5 meters the car went 9.87 m/s which would kill someone with how much force is acted on that person's body. The once we changes the height of the hill to 3.5 meters the speed was 8.25 m/s which is fine for the human body. Also just like the height when ever we change the mass of the car the amount of energy wither goes up or down. When we had the total mass of the car at 60 kilograms the total energy in joules was 2347 and when we had the car's mass at 54 kilos then the total amount of energy was 2643. But something we did notice about our experiments is that when ever we changed the weight of the car the speed didn't change. So when we had the car at 40 kilograms the car's max speed was 8.84 m/s. Once we changed the weight of the car to 60 kilograms the speed didn't change and stayed at 8.84 m/s. When ever the object is about to start it's motion before it goes all of the energy is potential energy but once it starts to go all of that energy then slowly turns into kinetic energy. So when the car was at the top of the hill then there was some potential energy but mainly kinetic energy because the car was still moving. Lastly the Law of conservation of mass affects out design because we know that what ever the potential energy at the start of the run is, is the kinetic energy that the car will end with at the end. I know this because we are conducting all of our experiments in a friction less environment so no energy is lost to thermal energy.