This roller coaster has the perfect heights, speed and is really fun to ride.
The drop height of the roller coaster will be 3.5 meters. This is because when the drop height is 5 meters, the speed gets up to 9.88 m/s, which is very unsafe. Also if the drop height is 2 meters, then speed would be 6.26 m/s, too slow and not fun at all. When the drop height is set to be 3.5 meters the speed is 8.26 m/s, perfect for safety and fun. The reason the speed increases when the height increases is because at the top of the drop the coaster has only PE. Height has a direct relationship with PE, meaning when one of them increases the other one does too. Having the greater PE with the additional height makes it so when the PE transfers into KE, the KE also is increased. Mass has been the same, and the only compenents in KE are velocity and mass so when the PE transfers to KE with a greater amount, speed is what increases instead of mass. Once the roller coaster is over, the total amount of energy will be increased because of the height increasing the PE at the top and KE at the bottom. The conservation of energy law states that energy cannot be created or distroyed. At the top of drop the potential energy has the total amount of energy, but as the car goes down the drop it tranfers into kinetic energy. 
My hill height is going to be at 3.25 meters high so the car gets over perfectly fine with the right amount of speed. If the hill height would be higher than the initial drop, the car wouldn't be able to get over the hill. This is because when the PE at the top of the drop transfers it would only be able to get the to hieght the drop is.  This is the same with the loop, our loop is going to be 3.25 meters high so everything is fun and safe. Energy not being able to be created or destroyed makes it so if the hill or loop is heigher then the initial drop there simply will not be enough energy to make it over the hill or loop.
The mass of the coaster is 50 kg. Whithout friction, mass does not affect speed at all. When the PE is transfering into KE the mass gets cancled out. PE equation is m x g x h and KE equation is 1/2 x m x v^2. When the energy transfers you get m x g x h = 1/2 x m x v^2. Divide mass on boths sides to cancle it out, leaving, g x h = 1/2 x v^2. Multiply 2 on each side, the 1/2 turns into 1 and on the other side you have 2 x g x h. After that you square root each side making it so √2 x g x h = v. Velocity's equation has nothing to do with mass, meaning the mass of the car doesn't affect the velocity.
PE and KE add up to the total amount of energy, total energy. At any point in the ride if you add the PE and KE that will give you the total energy. PE transfers into KE as it speeds up and goes down drops. Energy doesn't get created or distroyed, so as the car moves up and down the PE and KE transfers to one another they do not disapear or randomly apear they just transfer.