 Dear the Gonazales family,
     We have tried our best to make both a fun and safe ride for your amusment park, here is what the design will entail in our frictionless simulation. We have decided to have a drop height of 3.5 meters, which will give us enough speed to make it exciting but not too much speed to get hurt. Drop height and PE have a direct relationship when one goes up then the other will also go up. This is backed by how in my trials when I had a drop height of 5 meters the PE at the top of the drop was 2199 Joules.When I changed the drop height to 2 meters the PE at the top of the drop was only 880 Joules. Drop height and KE also have a direct relationship becasue they both increase together because the PE transfers into KE. TE is the combination of the PE and KE added together.  The TE will stay the same throughout the ride always since energy cannot be created or destroyed. As the car is going down the hill the PE is not being destroyed it is being tansfered into KE. For example, in my data at the 2 meter drop the PE at the beginning was 880 and it stayed that way all the way through the ride. Drop height and speed also have a direct realtionship when I increased the drop height to 5 meters the speed was 9.88 m/s which would have been unsafe and too fast. When I tried a 3 meter drop height the speed lowered to 7.66 m/s. Our group wanted the ride to be as fast as possible without hurting anyone so we decided to go in the middle and do 3.5 meters so it was as fast as is could be without being dangerous.
   
For our hill height we decided to make it 3 meters high. We choose this becasue the higher the hill the more energy it will have. For example, when I made the hill height 2 meters the PE at the top of the hill, it was only 888 Jouled but when I increased it to 3.5 meters the PE was 1547 Joules. The hill height will also affect speed in a direct relationship. When I increase the hill height the speed will also increase. One thing we had to think a lot about was the law of conservation of energy which states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. This shows in our design because the only energy we get is how much we get from the initial drop since energy cannot just come out of nowhere and it cannot just be created. So if you start with an initial drop of 2 meters and you have 880 Joules of energy you cannot make a hill 3 meters becasue the energy from the drop will not be enough to make it up that hill. You have to make the hill smaller than the drop height or the car will not make it to the end of the ride. That is also why we chose to have a drop height of 3.5 meters and and hill height of 3 meters.

We decided to have a mass of 60kg for our cars design. We chose this because the more mass that you have the more energy that we could have. Our proof for this is from my data, when I made the car mass 40kg the energy was 1958 Joules. But once I changed it to 60 kg the PE increased to 2936 Joules. As explained earlier you need the most amount of energy so that you can get to the end of the ride so making a car that has the most mass will give you the best chance to get to the end. Since we are in a frictionless simulation mass will not affect speed at all. For example in my trials when I tested a 40kg car the speed was 8.27 m/s but when I increased the mass to 60kg the speed still stayed at 8.27 m/s. So for this it didnt really matter what we chose for speed.

