We have worked to design a fun and safe roller coaster a perfect fit for the Gonzales family. First off we have decided that the initial drop should be 3.5 meters high and the mass of the car should be 60 kg. We know Drop height and speed are directly related meaning when the drop height is greater so will the speed or velocity/ KE. Yet mass and speed aren't related at all because they evenly cancel each other out. Our data shows that when the initial drop height was 5 meters the total speed was 9.89 m/s yet when the drop height was 4 meters the total speed was 8.84 m/s. Also, We know Drop height and mass are directly related to energy. When the drop is 5 meters the PE was 2443 J and when the drop height was 4 the PE was only 1955J. When the Mass was 60 kg the PE, KE, and TE were 2937 J  but when the mass was at 50 kg the PE, KE, and TE where 2448 J. We decided on 3.5 meters because it meets the requirements and is lower than 8.4 m/s but lower than 6.7 m/s, and we want our mass to be 60 kg because A bigger mass equals more Energy. 
Next, we figured out that the hill height was going to be 3 meters tall and the loop height was going to be 2.5 meters tall. We know that when the hill height is greater or the same as the drop height then the car won't make it to the end of the track. that being said we knew the best fit would be 3 meters since it is lower than the initial drop height but still at a fun height. We also chose to have our loop height shorter than our hill height, this will make sure the car can safely make it through the loop without stopping and or exceeding the speed limit. 
PE, KE, and TE are directly related, so when PE goes up so does KE, and when KE and PE go up so does the Total energy. As The car goes down a hill or the drop PE transforms its energy into KE. AT 5 meters PE has 2448 J but as it goes down the initial drop it transforms it into KE. When at the bottom there's 2448 J of KE and 0 PE, since PE and KE transform their energy it will be able to keep the car moving throughout the ride, and with bigger KE, PE, and TE it will make the more efficient. The law of conservation of Energy states that energy can not be created nor destroyed, that's why PE transforms its energy into KE and why the total Energy always stays the same. When friction is present it creates non-useful energy. Though it may seem like the energy was destroyed it wasn't, it is now just not useful to the rollercoaster. We used what we know about the law of conservation of mass to determine how high our drop should be and how big the car is. 