When it comes to our rollercoaster I believe the initial drop height should be 3.55 meters. I say this because in trial #2 the height of the initial drop was 4 meters and had a top speed of 8.84 m/s. This speed was unsafe for our passengers so in trial #5 I set the initial drop height at 3.55 meters this resulted in the top speed reaching 8.33 m/s which is right under the safety limit and will still give our passengers a fun experience. 

Through these experiments, I also learned the more height you have the more potential energy, kinetic energy, total energy, and speed you will have. I know this because in trial #1 the height of the initial drop was 5 meters and the speed at the bottom of the initial drop was 9.8 m/s. In trial #2 When the height of the initial drop was 3 meters the speed at the bottom of the initial drop was 7.64 m/s. This shows when the Initial drop height was lower the cart moved slower, this is because the higher up an object is the more time gravity has to apply its forces on the object. Therefore the object speeds up on its way down. I also know height affects potential energy and kinetic energy because in trial #1 the top of the initial drop height of 2 meters, the potential energy was 1173 Joules. In contrast, when the height of the initial drop was 5 meters the cart had 2933 Joules of potential energy. This shows that the higher an object is the more potential energy it has. Another reason I know potential energy is based on height is that potential energy is energy stored based on the position of an object meaning the higher the object is the higher the potential energy. But when the object is lower to the ground it will have a lower amount of potential energy. This also means there will be more kinetic energy at the bottom of the hill, this is because as the cart moves further down the initial drop all the potential energy will end up converting to kinetic energy.


I think the mass could vary because mass doesn't affect the speed of the rollercoaster. I know this because in trial #1 the mass of the car was 40 kg and the speed at the bottom of the initial drop was 9.8 m/s. To compare in trial #4 when the mass of the car was 60 kg the speed at the bottom of the initial drop was also 9.8 m/s. This information shows how even if the mass drastically changes the speed will not be affected. I also know that mass will not affect the speed of our rollercoaster because mass does not affect the speed of the rollercoaster, when finding the velocity or speed you have to simplify two equations. Both equations have mass as a term because the mass never changes mass gets canceled out of both equations. Therefore mass doesn't play a part in an object's speed. However, the mass does play a role in the amount of potential energy, kinetic energy, and total energy. I know this because in trial #1 the mass of the car was 40 kilograms and the total energy was 1956 Joules but in trial #2 the mass of the car was 45 kilograms and the total energy was 2194 Joules. Therefore the more mass the more total energy. 

I also think our rollercoaster hill and loop should be slightly shorter than the initial drop. I think this because when the car reaches the top of the hill, as long as the hill is shorter than the initial drop the Potential energy will be lower than when it was on the initial drop. There is enough energy for the cart to reach the other side of the hill. I know this because in trial number three the initial drop had a height of four meters and the hill had a height of two meters. Due to this, the potential energy at the top of the initial drop was 2348 Joules and the potential energy at the top of the hill was 1179 joules. This is explained by The Law of Conservation of Energy. The law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed meaning, the amount of total energy will stay the same. This is seen in my roller coaster trials when the cart moved down the initial drop the amount of potential energy was decreasing while the kinetic energy was increasing at the same rate, therefore the total energy stayed the same. 
