We have finally come to the conclusion on what we would like to do with your roller coaster. In the beginning we will have an initial drop of 3.5 meters, and again the goal of the initial drop is to get as much energy as possible. This will enable the coaster to go through the loops and hills. The more energy there is, the more of this the coaster will be able to do. The higher the initial drop is, the better. This gives it more potential energy. Overall, this increases the total amount of energy at the end, too. We know this because at one of my trials, the release height was at 2.5 meters, and the potential energy was 1222. Then, another one of my trials at a release height of 5, ended up with a total of 2937 J of potential energy. This shows that the higher the release height, the more potential energy there is. This can also be proved through the Law of Conservation of Energy. This says that the amount of energy, like matter, cannot be created or destroyed. It can only be transformed into kinetic or potential energy. Therefore, we need to have the initial drop as high as possible.

Consecutively, we are planning on having two loops. The first loop will have a height of 2.5 m and the following loop will have a height of 2 m. This is the best option and safest option we believe. It is a shorter height than the initial drop which is critical. Also, the height doesn't go into the risky or dangerous level, so therefore this is the safest and most exciting option. Straight after this there will be a small 1.5 m hill which will almost mark the end of the ride. This is probably the safest part of the roller coaster as it is the smallest and meets the safety standards. We know that the hill height has to be lower than the initial drop. As I’ve done some experiments, all of the coasters have made it to the end when the initial drop was higher than the hill was. An example would be when I had the initial drop PE at 1958 J; the hill height was 3 (at that point the PE was 1459 J). An example of a time when I didn’t make it would be when I had the initial drop PE at 1591 J. The PE, as close to the top of the hill as I could get it, was 1521 J. 

The mass of a roller coaster does not affect the velocity of the roller coaster. This variable therefore does not matter as much for speed. However the mass does effect the roller coasters ability to slow down. This is why we want the mass to be pretty small, but not so small. If it can stop really quickly, this could be a sign of danger and this is something that we don't really want. 

Thus this is our final coaster. The initial drop height will be pretty high, as to ensure it will be able to make through any loops and hills incorporated in the design. In this order, there will be two loops and finally a hill. To end, the coaster would have a proportional and safe amount of mass. Thank you for your consideration.