Hello Gonzales family,
 I am writing to inform you of our decision based on our most recent tests. We have decided on a 3.59 drop height because it will give you maximum speed without harming the people on board. When we tested 3.59 as our drop height we had a speed at the bottom of the initial drop at 8.3 m/s, at the top of the hill the speed was 3.48 m/s due to the energy being used to go up the hill, then at the end of our ride, the speed was 8.36 m/s. This was a perfect speed because we can't exceed 8.4 m/s without harming those on board so having an 8.36 speed is a perfect amount that will still be fun without harming others. Now let's discuss height. Height is a major factor in this ride because the taller the drop or hill is the more energy we will have due to that position above the ground. Our initial drop height sets the beginning of the ride off. When we have a taller initial drop we will have more potential energy due to the position that object is in above the ground which will soon transfer into KE as the cart goes down the hill. This means that with a higher initial drop, we will be able to have more PE and KE but we don't want too much because with too much energy that will become unsafe to the riders. Height also impacts speed because of the fact that with a higher height, the object has more energy causing it to have more speed due to the amount of energy that object has based on the height of the drops. The relationship between our hill height and initial drop is very important because if we have a hill higher then our initial drop we will not have the energy to make it over that hill. 
 Discussing our kinetic energy and potential energy without any friction the 2 will transform into one another. When we have kinetic energy the object is in motion and we won't have potential energy but when we do have potential energy that object is at rest and based on its position is how much potential energy that object has. When completely still that object has potential energy and no kinetic energy.
Now onto mass, mass doesn't affect our speed or the ride or energy of the ride due to the fact that gravity affects every object, in the same way, no matter the mass. For example, if we drop a brick and a feather that has very different masses the 2 would hit the ground at the same time because gravity affects them in the same way. Gravity is always 9.8 affecting every object, in the same way, meaning no matter the mass of our cart it won't affect the speed. Going back to the relationship between PE, KE, and TE from the last time we spoke. PE is our stored energy the energy an object has when it is not in motion when that object becomes in motion that energy is transferred into KE the energy an object has when it is in motion. An object will always have KE if it is in motion but once that object is at rest that KE transfers back into PE. The total energy is based on the total amount of energy we have at the end of our ride which is KE+PE. We will know if our test is off if we are gaining or losing any of that energy because that will not follow the law of conservation of energy. The law of conservation of energy states that no energy can be created nor destroyed the energy just transfers into one another. When we have a test that gains energy or loses energy we know something is not right.

Thank you for your time. We will continue to test our final decision to make sure it is right for what you need. 