Dear Gonzales family,
I am writing to you having completed all experiments and with recommendations for the dimensions of your new coaster. I'd like to begin with the heights that would be best for your attraction: I advise the drop to be 3.55 m tall, the loop to be 3.5 m tall and the hill to be 3.25 m tall. I feel that 3.55 meters is the best height for the drop because of the speeds that result from such a height. Our speed restrictions in the interest of rider safety and interest must be between 6.7 m/s and 8.4 m/s, anything below and the riders will be disdainful of this new ride, anything above and we risk health issues and lawsuits. The reason that speed is involved when we consider height is that speed or rather velocity is found by dividing the distance traveled by the amount of time it traveled that distance or m/s in our instance. Height in this situation is a form of distance that the car has traveled and therefore effects the speed of said car. We conducted a survey in a room full of middle schoolers, our question being what aspect of a coaster makes it fun. There was an overwhelming amount of students that felt speed was the largest aspect in their enjoyment. 3.55 m is therefore the best height because its velocity of 8.33 m/s falls inside of our range and is very close to the high end, allowing lots of safe speed and customer enjoyment. The height of both the hill and loop are dependent on the height of the drop. This is due mainly to the Law of Conservation of Energy which states that within a closed system, energy cannot be gained or lost. This is evident with the amount of PE, KE and total energy in the trials that we conducted. PE is the stored energy that an object has and KE is the motion energy that an object has. When the object is at the top of a drop, it has only PE because it is not in motion. As the object moves down the slope, its PE is converted into KE and at the bottom there is all KE because all energy is being used for motion and none is stored.The PE and KE and any other energy in these experiments always added together to get the total energy and because of the law of conservation of mass, this value is constant. Now with the consideration that total energy remains the same, this explains how the loop and hill must be shorter than the drop before them. There is only so much energy in a system and as the car climbs a hill or loop, some of that KE gets converted into PE. It doesn't have enough momentum to get over an obstacle greater than or equal in height to its previous drop. With this in consideration and with the initial drop at 3.55 it makes the most sense to have the loop at 3.5 m as it comes after the drop and the hill at 3.25 m due to its following the loop. I have chosen a mass of 50 as the best fit for your coaster because the mass doesn't impact the speed and it would be nice to carry more people.