Dear Gonzales family,

Many different designs have been considered for your roller coaster, but we believe that this design will ensures that it is fun and safe. The measurements for this roller coaster are a 3.5 m initial drop, a 2.75 m loop, and a 3 m hill. I also think that the mass of the car should be 54 kg. I chose these measurements because a 3.5 initial drop will produce a speed of 8.26 m/s and this means that it is within the parameters of 6.7 m/s and 8.4 m/s. This height will mean that the right is a safe but fun speed. The loop should be 2.75 m because this is small enough that the ride has enough energy to go through it. This height also means that it will not stop the ride. I chose a hill height of 3 m because it is less than the initial drop height. If the hill height was greater than the initial drop the car would not be able to get over it and finish the ride.

Height has an effect on PE, KE, total energy and speed. The relationship between PE and height is the more  height something has the more PE it has. This is because PE is the energy of position. If an object has a greater height it has the potential to have more energy and has more PE. The relationship between height and KE is if you have more height it does not affect the KE. This is because when you have greater height you have greater PE, and KE is the energy of motion, not the energy of position. You are not moving at the top of the hill so there is no KE no matter how tall the hill is. The more height something has the more total energy it has. This is because is has more PE to be transferred to KE and total energy is just all the energy's at play added together. The more height you have the more speed you have. This is because you get more PE with more height and when converted to KE you have more energy and propels you down faster.

PE, KE, and total energy are all kind of energy at play in this situation. Total energy is the combination of all energy's that are at play. The total energy will always be the same. This is because the Law of Conservation of Energy states that no energy is lost, just transferred to different kinds of energy. So while PE might be declining KE will be inclining and the total energy will the same. The Law of Conservation of Energy also states that there is no energy created. So you need to be able to get through your roller coaster with the energy that is given to you at the initial drop.

Mass does not have an impact on speed because it takes more energy to move things with more mass. Things with more mass allow greater PE, and these two factors cancel each other out. The more mass you have the more PE you have because things with more mass are more resistant to move but are not moving. Mass also has a direct impact on KE. This is because mass is a component in the equation for KE and if you increase a variable you increase the product. More mass means a greater total energy because it increases PE and KE, which added together, equal the total energy.
