Hello Gonzales family first I wanted to talk to you about the height and the mass of your coaster car.  The height of your initial drop does not affect how fast your coaster car will go.  For example say you have a mass of 40 kilograms the speed at the end of the ride is 7.66 m/s.  Then say you have a different has of 60 kilograms at the end of the ride the speed is also 7.66 m/s.  This just shows that no matter what the mass is the mass wont affect the speed of the coaster car.  The height affects the potential energy, kinetic energy, total energy, and speed.  This is because the higher the initial drop the more speed there will be.  Also the more total energy you will be left with.  If an object is placed at a bigger height there will be more kinetic energy.  Also doubling the height will add more potential energy.  Mass doesn't affect potential energy, kinetic energy, total energy, or the speed.  Mass doesn't affect the speed or the total energy of something because mass doesn't affect how fast something goes or how slow something goes.  This is because there is gravity acting on the objects.  Potential energy and kinetic energy form together once both have started to go down the hill.  This will affect the total energy of when potential energy and kinetic energy form together and reach the bottom of the hill.  Both will have a lot of total energy at the end of the ride.  The law of conservation of energy affects this because energy cannot be created or destroyed and never changes.  This means that the roller coaster may lose energy going up a hill but will gain it back again once the coaster car goes over the hill.  Our teams coaster car will make it to the end of the ride because we have the right data.  Also we know what is to slow for a ride and what is to fast that it is dangerous.  Our team thinks that a higher initial drop and a lower hill will be better to make it to the end of the ride.  This is because if the hill is bigger than the initial drop the coaster car wont have enough energy to make it to the end of the ride. 