There is a direct relationship between the initial drop and hill heights to ensure the car has enough energy to make it to the end of the ride. From my data, you need speed or PE to make it up the hill. The more speed or PE, the more energy to make it up the hill. That is a direct relationship. A drop height of 5m with a 2m hill gives 7.68 m/s, but only 2.18 m/s with a 2.25m drop, which is barely enough energy to make the car go over the hill. So if you increase the drop height, the more you can increase the hill height. The hill and loop heights should be 2m at maximum, and halving each hill/loop after. This also means that drop height and speed are direct relationships. The higher the drop, the more KE you have, and since KE has velocity in the equation, KE and velocity are direct relationships. Velocity and Speed are almost the same, just without the direction, so you could say that speed and velocity are also direct relationships. From my data, a drop height of 5m gives 9.87 m/s at the bottom of the drop, but a drop height of 2.25m only gives 6.63 m/s. So if you increase the drop height, speed increases. The opposite happens if you decrease the drop height. For this reason, I choose to make the drop height 3.5m, because it is not too fast but not too slow either. Mass, on the other hand, has no relationship with speed, because gravity wants to pull the car faster to the ground for more mass it has but requires more force to do so, so it balances out. From my data, a drop height of 3.5m and a 60kg car moves at 8.27 m/s, and the cart moves at 8.27 m/s when the car is 40kg. If you increase or decrease mass, you won't get an increase or decrease in speed. Since there is no relationship, I choose to have a bigger cart, like a 60kg cart. Energy and mass have a direct relationship because there is no mention in the equation of the amount of force required, only the force exerted. PE has a direct relationship with KE. Based on what I wrote the last essay, the more PE you start with, the more KE you will have for the entire ride. TE is the amount of energy you have for the entire ride, which always equals the sum of KE and PE with no friction. As you go down a drop or hill, you convert KE to PE, but since KE and PE sum up to TE, TE remains constant. So this means that I can't make the hill or loop height higher than the initial drop height. Newton's law states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, but only converted. There is an example with PE and KE, as you go down a drop, you convert PE to KE, and as you go up, you convert KE to PE. So this proves that I can't make the hill or loop height higher than the initial drop height.