My recommendation is we start our roller coaster at the height of 3.5 m because the higher the drop is the more total energy it has. For example when i tested the height of 3 m the total energy was 1466 J. But when I tested the height of 2 m the total energy was 977 J. So having higher initial drop height we will have more energy to make it through he ride and it doesn't get stuck. Having a higher initial drop height will increase the speed. So we should use 3.5 m because when i test the height of 5 the speed was 9.88 m/s/s. But when i tested the height of 4.25 the speed was 9.10 m/s/s. When the car starts at the top of the hill all of the energy in the car will be PE because PE is affected by height. The initial drop affects speed because when the car is going do the hill all of the PE will transfer to KE. It also affects the total energy because when the car starts and the top of the drop all of the energy is PE. Height is used to calculate PE so when the energy transfers to KE it will have a higher speed. Energy can transfer from one another because the law of conservation of energy. The law states that, Energy can not be created or destroyed but it can transfer to other types of energy. So when the car is going up and down the ride he energy is transferring  from PE to KE. The total energy stays the same because energy cant be created or destroyed so all of the energy that is there at the start is there at the end. But energy can transfer to other types of non useful energies like thermal energy. You get thermal energy from adding friction and because this was tested without friction all of the energy stays the same.
Having a greater total energy will help the coaster car make it over the hill and loop. For example when I used a initial height of 5 m and test the hill at 5 m, The car wasn't able to make it over the hill because there wont be enough energy. But when i test 4 m the car was a able to make it over the hill. The higher the height the more PE the coaster will have. The hill height needs to be less than the height of the initial drop. Otherwise there will not be enough energy and it wont make it over the hill. So I recommend the hill height be 3 m and the height of the loop be 2.5 m.
I recommend we have a car mass of 60 kg. Having a higher car mass will create a higher total energy so it has enough energy to make it through the ride. The mass will affect the total energy because mass is used to calculate PE and KE. But mass doesn't affect speed. Mass doesn't affect speed because the formulas for PE and KE both have mass in them so mgh=1/2mv². Because you have mass in both equations you can cancel them out. So then whatever the mass is it wont affect the speed. For example when i tested the mass of 40 kg the speed at the end was 8.26 m/s/s. When i tested the mass of 60 kg the speed at the end was 8.26.