To make a safe roller coaster for the Gonzales family they need to know the how to properly use energy. I have been studying PE and KE and how they change throughout the roller coaster. First I chose the height of the initial drop to be 5 meters. I chose 5 meters because that is the tallest I could make the initial drop and it has more PE which will eventually turn into KE. The taller the initial drop the more amount of energy you get to use throughout the roller coaster and it makes it more enjoyable for your guests. Data: 5m --> 2443(J), 2m--> 977(J). 
For the height of the hill I chose the height 3.5 meters. I needed the hill height to be less than the initial drop otherwise the car won't make it over the hill losing all of it's kinetic and potential energy. That would create balanced forces. If the hill is too high then the car won't make it over the hill but if it's too low then it won't have as much energy. Data: 5m --> 984(J), 3.50m --> 2447(J), 2m --> 2150(J). 
The loop at the end of the roller coaster is 2.50 meters, from the ground to the top of the loop. 2.50 meters is a good height for a loop because it isn't too tall but it also isn't too small to where it wouldn't be as enjoyable/ thrilling. The drop height affects the speed because when you drop something at a taller height than the car will go aster due to the gravitational force pulling it to the gorund. The heavier the car is the faster it will go. So increasing the weight of the car will make the roller coaster faster. Increasing the loop height wouldn't ensure that the car would make it to the end. Energy can't be created or destroyed so using the designs that have the most amount of energy help with friction and making sure that the car makes it through the entire coaster.  Data: 3.50m --> 2.27 m/s, 2.50m --> 4.99 m/s. 
The car mass should be 60kg because it has more energy than a car with a mass of 40kg. Data: 60kg --> 2497(J), 40kg --> 1665(J).That is because the more mass something has the more kinetic energy something has. The mass and KE have a direct relationship so if the mass increases then so does the KE, meaning if the car is heavier then there will be more total energy, PE, and KE. The total energy is 2934(J) with the heights being 5m, 3.50m, & 2.50m. The total energy is the PE and KE added together with no friction. 
The relationship between PE and KE are relevant because when the car goes down then the PE will transfer into KE and when the car goes back up again then the KE will transfer back into PE. This cycle will happen until the roller coaster comes to a stop. Sense the initial drop is 5 meters tall then the hill height has to be shorter than that, I would suggest your hill height being 3.5 meters tall. It is shorter than the initial drop so the car can get over it but it's still tall enough to get through the rest of the coaster. The initial drop is the source of all of the energy for the roller coaster. If you need more energy than the amount you have then the car will just fall back and you won't make it to the end of the ride.

