Our design drop height is 3.5 meters high. We choose this height because it keeps our car a max speed of 8.3. The drop height effects the speed of the car because the higher the drop is the more potential energy you have. Which will give the car a greater speed as it launches down the hill. For example anytime we tried a drop height over 3.5. It went over the constraints so we kept experimenting until we got the correct height. For our hill height we decided to go with 3.25 meters. because we knew that for our car to get over the hill and have enough potential energy we needed to have the hill be less than our drop. The drop effects our hill because the drop needs to give the cart enough potential energy to make it over the hill. same thing with the loop. the loop has to be less than our hill so that when the cart goes back down the hill it has enough potential energy to get through the loop. so we added this all up and found the correct speed to make it through our roller coaster. For our car mass we decided to go with 40 grams. We choose this because we thought it was the right fit for our coaster. The mass of the cart does not effect the speed at all but it does effect the total energy. This is because the cart weighs more so it has more potential energy but is also cancels the speed out because the mass. Our car is safe and fun because we have it throuugh out the whole ride where the speed doesnt go over 8.4 and doesnt go below 7.6. This is so that the car can be not to slow but also not to fast. Our cart also has enough energy to make it through the whole ride because each time the first hill is taller than the next. Total energy represents the amount of starting potential energy and ending kinetic energy.The law of conservation of energy states that energy can neither be created nor destroyed. only converted from one form of energy to another. This is proven because the starting potential energy always equals the total energy but then when it starts to go down the hill the potential energy starts to go away. This is because the energy is trasnfering from potential energy to kinetic energy. The potential and kinetic energy will always equal the total energy. Total energy you can see/know even before the energy trasffers because the starting potential energy is the same as the total energy and same with the ending kinetic energy. Drop height will always start with 0 kinetic energy and will have to be higher than the hill height to be able to make it over. once you make it to the hill you will have partial kinetic energy and partial potential energy because it wont be high enough to equal the total energy.The mass of your cart will effect your coasters potential energy and kinetic energy because the cart is much harder to transfer as it is a much heavier object. The mass of the cart will never effect the speed, no matter if the cart is 40kg or 400kg the speed will stay the same. Mass is the total weight and area of the car also known as how large it is. Speed is how fast/slow the car is traveling meatured in mph. The drop height of my coaster has to be large enough to have enough potential energy to make it over all the obstacles. But since we have criteria to follow we have to have it go fast enough.