We think the height of the initial drop should be 3.5 meters. This is because it is the highest safe height. With an initial drop height of 3.5 meters the cart will reach a speed of 8.27 m/s, this is safe. At 4.25 meters it will reach a speed of 9.11 m/s, this is not safe. An initial drop height of 3.5 meters will get the cart moving at a fun but safe speed. The second hill is a loop that is 2 meters tall. We believe this will allow the cart to maintain a great speed even while at the top of the loop. It will also give them a nice drop after the loop where they will get a quick speed. The third and final hill will be 1 meter tall. This is to slow the ride down a bit but make sure they still get over. After this fun ending the ride should be able to come to a stop somewhat quickly.

We decided the best mass would be 40 kg because this won't affect the speed. In our trials if the cart weight was 40 kg the max speed was 8.27. If the cart weight was 60kg the max speed was 8.27. By choosing 40 kg we can move these carts around easier without losing any max speed. While all of this is true the mass does affect the PE and KE. At the top of the drop the cart with 60 kg will have more PE than the cart with 40 kg. At the bottom of the initial drop the 60 kg cart will have more KE than the 40 kg cart but won't have a greater velocity. Even with a greater TE the cart won't move any faster than a cart that weighs 40 kg due to needing to move more mass.

While we know that mass doesn't affect velocity we found that height does. With a height of 2.75 meters the max speed was 7.33 m/s but with a height of 5 meters the max speed was 9.88 m/s. If the PE is greater the KE will at some point be greater. This means PE and KE have a direct relationship. The greatest amount of PE at anytime during the ride will always be equal to the TE. In a frictionless world PE+KE=TE but in real life PE+KE+HE=TE.

The law of conservation of energy affects the design because we need to know how PE converts to KE and vise versa. In a frictionless world this is very simple. The PE will perfectly convert to KE. However in the real world friction will make this conversion not perfect. PE-HE=KE. We want the ride to be safe even with heat energy. This is why we decided to keep the hill significantly shorter than the drop before it while still keeping a nice speed that should be fun.