Hello Gonzales family, me and my team have the safest and most exciting roller coaster for you.The drop height of my roller coaster design is 3.5 meters. This is because according to the data when we increased the drop height the PE went up at the initial drop. For example we started at a drop height of 2 meters and the PE is 977 joules. When we increased the height of the drop to 3 meters the PE was 1466 joules. Also the KE at the bottom of the hill will be larger when you increase the drop height. On top of that the total energy will increase with the drop height increasing since total energy and PE have a direct relationship. Whenever the PE of the car increases the total energy will increase. Total energy will always equal PE. This will help ensure that the coaster doesn't get stuck when it is going up a hill or through a loop. Also we would have more speed since the PE and KE is increasing. When you have a higher drop height it gives the car more time to build up speed when dropping down the drop. 

We are next thinking that the hill height should be 3 meters high. If we have the initial drop at 3.5m and the hill at 3m then it will be just enough to get up the hill while still being fun. We can say this because our data proves that it won't make it up the hill height that is 5 meters tall. for example our data shows that when the hill is 3 meters the cart will make it up the hill with an initial drop height of 5 meters. When we move the hill height to 5 meters the cart doesn't make it up the hill. So we can infer that the hill has to be a smaller height than your initial drop. When the cart goes down the initial drop it's PE is being transferred into KE. The speed will get faster as the energy is being transferred between PE and KE. When the car starts to go up the hill the KE will then start to transfer back into PE since it's on top of the hill. We know this all because of our data, for example when the initial drop was 2m the PE at the top of the hill was 980j. In our data the KE at the top of the hill was 1463j. Since newtons law states that energy can't be made or destroyed this means that when the energy transfers, if some is lost that means that it was transferred into not useful energy. 

We are thinking of 60kg for a car mass.  The mass of the car affects PE because when you have more mass the PE goes up. in our data when the mass was 40kg the PE was 1955j. When the mass was 60kg the PE was 2933. The mass also affects the KE because when you have more mass you have more KE. Our data shows that when the mass is 40kg the Ke is 1953j. When the mass is 60kg the Ke is 2927j. The mass of the car how ever does not affect the speed because gravity will continue to pull the car to the center of the earth at the same rate of 9.8. We know this because our data shows that when the mass of the car is 40kg the speed is 3.1m/s. When the mass of the car is 60kg the speed of the car is 3.1m/s. 