Hi Gonzales family, I have come up with a perfect design for you! Starting off with the roller coasters cart; You can have any mass you want for your cart.  The reason is because mass doesn't effect speed.  During my trials I noticed that when I changed my cart mass, my speed stayed the same. For example in my 1st trial for mass and speed, I had set my cart to 40 and the speed was 8.26. Then I set my carts mass for 55, and the speed of my cart was 8.26 as well. No matter the mass the speed will be the same. Mass does effect PE, KE, and TE. If the object has more mass, it mean that the object is larger. Larger objects have more space for PE, which will result in more KE when the object gains motion. That's because energy cannot be created nor destroyed, but can transfer to one to another. When the object is at the top of the initial drop it will hold PE, then once the cart moves downhill the PE will transfer to KE. At the end of the ride the cart will just have the starting PE from the initial drop because energy cannot be created nor destroyed.Your roller coaster height should be 3.5 meters tall because then the cart will have enough energy to make the coaster fun and safe. With the starting height of 3.5 your coaster with have a speed ranging from 7.72-7.71, which is a safe speed for the riders. Your hill height should be 2 meters tall. Because then the cart will have enough PE to get over the hill after dropping down the initial drop.  Your initial drop height needs to be taller then your hill height, or the cart will not be able to go up the hill after the drop. Your starting PE is all the energy your coaster will have, so when your coaster gains motion it can take that PE and become KE. But if your hill is taller the your initial drop then it'll have more PE then the initial drop. Also the taller the drop the more PE you'll cart will have to become KE. Sense KE is energy when a object has motion, that means the more KE the faster your speed will be. After your hill you should add a loop of 2 meters. With a loop of 2 meters your cart will still be able to maintain speed to make it through the ride. But most importantly the ride will be fun and safe. Thanks for your time! 

