   Hey there Gonzales family i'm here to tell you why i believe you should let me design your coaster. I believe you should have a roller coaster with an initial drop of 3.5 meters and a hill of 2 meters with a mass of 50 kilograms.

   This is because having a drop height of 3.5 meters you have enough speed to make it through the hole roller coaster while not going over the max speed of which the passengers would get hurt. The way I was able to find this out was that I tested a multitude of different drop heights seeing how fast the cart reaches  starting from the max height to the smallest height. I found this height of 3.5 meters doesn't make the cart go over the max speed and gets through the hole ride with out issue.

  The reason I believe you should have a hill height of 2 meters is because then you are able to get some height that isn't to big to the point where you wont be able to make it. but big enough to get some thrill going up and down it. The way that I found this is i knew that your hill can not be higher then your initial drop because it wont have enough KE to make it up over the hill. 

This is because the initial drop gives you the most amount of PE you can get because of total energy which is found by adding the PE and KE. as the cart moves down the hill the PE turns into KE as it goes down the hill which gives us speed and allows it to make it up the hill. 

The next thing I did was i tested the height from the initial drop height to the lowest height. I found the lowest height of 2 meters allows you to get some speed and allows you to add more segments to your coaster while still being able to make it to the end.

The mass I recommend is a cart mass of 50 kg so its not to heavy and not to light. But what every you pick for cart mass wont depend at all on the speed of the cart because in the equation to find velocity mass and speed cancel each other out.

The mass also affects the amount of PE and KE the ride will have because the more mass you have means the more KE and PE you will have throughout the hole of the ride.

One way I found out that mass doesn't effect the speed is i ran multiple tests with different mass and each one had the exact speed as the other.

Thanks to the law conservation of mass which states that energy cant be destroyed nor created but in turn can only be transferred from one type of energy, to the next helping us know that the energy we have cant be lost.

That is why i believe you should have an initial drop of 3.5 meters a hill height of 2 meters and a mass of 50 kilograms.

