Dear Gonzales Family, 
After researching mass, energy, speed, drop heights, and the law of conservation of energy in relation to roller coaster designs, I would like to propose the following design for your new coaster! You should design a car that is 60 kg. I believe that the initial drop height should be 3.50 m, the hill height should be 3.00 m, and the loop should be 2.50 m. The flat section at the end should be around 2.00 m, as the car will have plenty of energy in the system to make it to the end of the ride. First, I would like to address the relationship between speed and mass. Mass and speed have a constant relationship, meaning that as mass increases or decreases, the speed remains the same. I know that speed remains the same no matter what the mass is because when the mass of the car was 40 kg (all other variables were the same for each trial), the top speed was 7.65 m/s. When I increased the mass to 53 kg, the max speed was 7.65 m/s. The same was true for the 60 kg car, the max speed was 7.65 m/s. On the other hand, mass and PE, KE, and TE have a direct relationship. This means that as the mass increases, the amount of energy increase. When mass decreases, the amount of energy decreases. This is important information to know because if there is not enough energy in the roller coaster system, the car will not make it through the hill, loop, or to the end of the ride. My data supports these finding because when the car was 40 kg, the amount of PE at the top of the drop was 1954 Joules, which was equal to the KE at the bottom of the drop and TE in the system. When the mass of the car was 60 kg though, the amount of PE at the top of the drop was 2930 Joules, which also was equal to the amount of KE at the bottom of the drop and TE in the whole system. This data shows that as the mass increases, so does the TE. The more PE there is at the top of initial drop, the more TE there is the system because the TE = PE at the top of the initial drop. We are able to calculate the amount of TE in a system by taking the sum of all the energy in a system. In a friction less environment, we can take KE + PE = TE at any given point during the ride. For example, the TE in this roller coaster trial was 1955 Joules. The amount of KE at the top of the hill was 483 Joules and the PE at the top of the hill was 1472 Joules. When adding 483 + 1472, you get 1955 Joules which is the total energy in the system. This simple addition works because of the law of conservation of energy of mass which states that energy can not be created nor destroyed in a closed system. We see this law at play as the car makes its way down the initial drop. As the car moves down the drop, the PE is transferred into KE. The PE is not "lost" and the KE is not "gained" instead the PE is being converted into KE. While speed is not impacted by mass, it is impacted by the initial drop height. I know that as the drop height increases, so does the max speed that the roller coaster reaches. When the drop height was 3 m, the max speed was 7.66 m/s. But when the drop height was 5 m, the speed was 9.88 m/s (which is a very unsafe speed). After reviewing the speeds reached at different heights, I would recommend an initial drop height of 3.5 m because the max speed reached at this height is 8.27 m/s which is less than the 8.4 m/s limit, so it would still be a safe roller coaster. Lastly, as I had started to address in the beginning, the hill height has to be less than the initial drop height, and the loop height has to be less than the hill height. I know this because when the hill height was 3 m and the initial drop height was 3 m, the car did not have enough energy to make it to the end of the ride. When the car was as far up the hill as possible before falling back down, the amount of KE the car had was 0 Joules which meant that there was not enough KE to move the car over the hill. When the initial drop was 3 m, the hill height was 2.5 and the loop was 2.5 m, the car did make it over the hill, however it did not make it through the loop. It did not make it through the loop for the same reason that it did not make it over the hill the first time. There simply was not enough KE available to move the car through the loop. This data shows in order for the car to make it to the end of the ride, the height of the previous part of the coaster must be greater than the height of the height of the current part of the coaster. I hope you will take my findings into consideration. I can't wait to ride the new roller coaster! 