Hey Gonzales family. Me and my team have worked hard on this roller coaster and we have finally finished the final details to make this the most safe and thrilling roller costar in the park. The drop height for the roller coaster is gonna be 4m high. We chose this because the higher the hill the more speed and the lower the hill the less speed. But we need to make sure the hill isn't to high so it doesn't kill our passengers so that's why it is gonna be 4. It's fun and not to fast that it will kill our passengers. The relationship between height and PE is whenever we make the height higher there is more PE. For example when we made the height 4m the PE was 1955 and then we changed the hill height and we made it 5m then the PE was 2443. Next we will have our loop. Our loop is gonna be 3m high. We chose this because we need enough energy to get through the loop. For example when we have a 3m drop and we have a 4m loop the coaster wont make it over because there is not enough energy for it. If the PE at the top of the hill is 1469 and the PE at the top of the loop is 1360 that means we lost a lot of energy to kinetic and we dont have enough to make it over. The hill height then is gonna 2m. We chose that for the same reason as the loop so we have enough energy to make it over the hill. Next the car mass. We decided to make the car mass 50kg. This is a good choice because mass doesn't effect speed. To prove that we did some test and found out that when the mass of the car is either 40kg 50kg or 60kg they all have the same speed at the end 8.84. So it didn't really matter what mass we choose so we just went with the one in the middle. So in the end our roller coaster is a very fun and safe ride for all because of the law of conservation of energy. No energy can be created nor destroyed only transformed from energy to energy. That means sense we dont have any friction all the PE turns into KE. The total energy always stays the same as well. Then lastly the relationship between PE and KE. If there is no friction then when were at the top of the hill and the PE is 2443 when the coaster goes down the PE transforms into KE and so then when were at the bottom of the hill our KE is 2443. Our ride has the right speeds so the pressure doesn't kill us and we have the right heights so that our coaster makes it to the end of the ride. I hope you enjoy your coaster and get lots of new customers. Thank you for choosing my team to design it. Safe riding.
-Allie Mathews 