Dear Gonzales family,
Let me take you through a step by step explanation of the roller coaster ride and the scientific explanations behind them using data from many simulations.
Firstly is the initial drop. We decided to make the initial drop 3.5 meters because it is the tallest safest height and maximizes potential energy. This means that with an initial drop of 8.5 meters the maximum speed is 8.27 m/s which is still under 8.4 keeping the ride safe.
The height of the first hill we decided on was 2.5 meters. With this height the cart can still go over but it generates a lot of kinetic energy.
For the loop we chose to make the height 2 meters tall. We chose this because it helps to maintain the potential energy along the ride and would still keep the cart going.
Lastly for the hill we chose it to be 1 meter. We chose this because it will slow down the cart a little in preparation for the end of the ride.
Mass doesn't affect the speed because there is not enough friction and they have no relationship.
Mass affects potential energy because the more mass there is the potential energy but it has no relationship with kinetic energy.
As potential energy goes up so does kinetic because they have a direct relationship. So as height increases which generates potential energy kinetic energy increases once the cart is released. This can also be explained by the formula mass*height*gravity=potential energy
The law of conservation of energy also applies here because there is no friction, so the energy from potential and kinetic is not converted to thermal but exchanged from one another.
The total energy stayed the same throughout the entire ride because mass can neither be created or destroyed and there was no friction.
The cart will make it to the end of the ride because the initial drop has generated enough speed to be maintained through out the ride and no hill or loop height is higher. The ride is insured to be safe because it does not exceed the safety limit we have set. The roller coaster will hopefully be as much fun to you as much as it is for us because it is safe fast and has many hills and loops.
We sincerely hope that this ride is as much of a thrill for you as it is for us and that we can proceed in making this ride a reality together! 