Hello Gonzalez Family, I Joey Lobraco and my team will build you a roller coaster. For my team and I to make you a roller coaster I would fist suggest the initial drop height to be 3.50 meters high. This height will be save and thrilling because over some research ive done a initial drop height over 3.50 meters will have a negative effect on the human body causing bruising or worse. The mass of your car will not effect the speed because in a frictionless envirement the car's mass because of the momentum won't build up because there is no mass being added to in/ there is no friction pulling it in anyways.  The height on the initial height must be higher than the loop and the hill because the KE and PE wont be enough to get it though or over that. PE plus KE equals the TE and so going down the initail drop. The PE transfers over to KE because as the Law of Conservation states You cannot create nor destroy energy, but that energy is being transfered from PE to KE and KE to PE throughout the ride. The amount of mass the cart has does not change the amount of speed or KE/PE an object will have in a frictionless envirement. When you have a high height like 4.50 meters you will have a speed at the bottom of the drop at 9.38 m/s causing the ride to have to much PE and KE and it has a negative cause on the human body. Aswell as when you have a initial drop height o 3.00 meters the ride will be boring because you will ony be going 7.66 m/s. Therefore choosing a initail drop height of 3.50 meters is the best option. The Loop would come next on the ride. The loop must have a smaller height from the initial drop height because if not it will not make it around because there wont be enought PE/KE to make it around. So I suggest the loop to be at 2.75 meters causing the loop to be exciting not too slow and not too fast to cause harm to the human body. Once you finish the loop I suggest a hill with the height of 2 meters so it is smaller than the loop, because like I suggested the hill must be smaller than everything because then you will actually be able to make it over. Then ending it off with the flat ground slowly stopping the ride. The total energy of the ride will be the same amount of energy as the PE at the start of the ride because what you need at the beggining you need at the end, and energy cannot be created or destroyed. When the KE and PE is not a perfect split or one does not have all of the joules then you add them together like when they are transfering over it should always equal the TE.