First, I would recommend having an initial drop height of 3.5 meters. I believe this is best because, in my trials, I found that height and energy have a direct relationship. For example, in my trials when I tested an initial drop height of 4 meters, I found that the PE at the top of the drop was 1955 joules. Then when I increased the height of the initial drop to 5 meters, I found that the PE at the top of the drop had increased to 2443 joules. At the top of the drop, the car has all PE but as it travels down the hill, that PE is converted into KE. This means that the greater the drop height, the more PE, KE, and TE there will be. I also found that height and speed have a direct relationship meaning that the greater the height, the greater the speed. When I tested a drop height of 5 meters, I found that the top speed of the car was 9.88 m/s. Since this speed is greater than the maximum speed we can have on our ride, having a height of 5 meters would make our roller coaster unsafe. An initial drop height of 3.5 meters will give the roller coaster enough energy to make it through the ride and enough speed to make it exciting while still keeping the ride safe. 

Also, I would recommend a loop height of 2 meters and a hill height of 1.5 meters off the ground. In my trials, I learned that the loop or hill height must be less than the height of the drop that comes before it. This ensures that the roller coaster car will make it through and to the end of the ride. In my trials, when I tested a hill height of 5 meters with an initial drop height of 5 meters, I found that the car was unable to make it over the hill because it did not have enough energy. Then when I lowered the height of the hill to 3.5 meters, the car had enough energy to make it up and over the hill and was able to get through the ride. 

Additionally, I believe that 60 kg is the best mass for the roller coaster car. In my trials, I learned that mass and energy have a direct relationship. I tested a car mass of 50 kg and found the PE at the top of the drop was 2446 joules. Then when I increased the car mass to 60 kg, I found that the PE at the top of the drop was 2936 joules. This means that the greater the mass, the more PE, KE, and TE there will be. We also learned that mass does not affect speed so having a greater car mass won't affect the speed, it will just give the car more energy.

The Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy can't be created or destroyed. You can see this when looking at total energy. The total energy is found by adding together the potential and kinetic energy. Because energy can't be created or destroyed, the TE will remain the same throughout the ride. Even though the PE and KE are converting back and forth, they will always add up to the same amount. 