Dear Gonzales family, we have taken many tests to figure out the best roller coaster ride that is safe. With this information, the best initial drop height should be 3.5 m, with the hill being 3.25 m and 3 m for the loop and the mass of the car should be 60 kg. The hill and loop need to be shorter than the initial drop height otherwise there won't be enough energy for the car to get over them and make it to the end of the ride. With the initial drop of 3.5 m, we would get enough potential energy to make it to the end of the ride while keeping the ride fun with a max speed of 8.3 m/s. And with more car mass there is even more total energy to get us to the end of the ride. The height of the initial drop, the hill, and the loop affect the speed of the ride because the total energy we have at the start of the ride is the max amount of energy we will have throughout the ride to the end. So if we have a greater height there would be more potential energy and speed. Potential energy is affected by height because PE= mass x height x acceleration due to gravity, if you change one of the variables it will increase the outcome. So if you increase the height of the initial drop you would increase the potential energy, and if you would increase the mass of the car you would also increase the amount of potential energy. Kinetic energy is dependent on how much potential energy you have, and so if we have more potential energy there would be more kinetic energy. This would then have more speed/velocity because KE = 1/2 x mass x velocity squared, an increase in the kinetic energy would increase the variables. If there is a greater amount of height there would be more potential energy and so more kinetic energy, giving it more speed. So if you have more height you have more speed. Along with height, if you would increase the mass of the car it would also increase the amount of potential energy and kinetic energy we have because mass is a variable in both the formulas that calculate PE and KE. So if we have the car mass at 60 kg, we will get more total energy out of it, but the speed of the ride will not change because mass doesn't affect the speed of something. Changing the amount of potential energy and kinetic energy we have also changes the amount of total energy we have. The more total energy we have the better we can insure that the car makes it to the end of the roller coaster ride. According to the law of conservation of energy, no energy is created or lost when one form of energy is converted into another. So during the roller coaster ride, no energy is lost or made, but converted into a different kind of energy. We need the right amount of total energy to create a safe and exciting ride that will make it to the end of the roller coaster. with the information that we have collected this data will give us a safe and exciting roller coaster ride!