For the roller coaster, I believe that the ideal height of the initial drop should be about 3.5 meters high. I have made my final conclusion at this height because it is withing the safety measures and also provides a fun thrill factor when riding. It keeps the car at a safe speed that above 6.4 m/s for the fun factor, and also under the 8.7 m/s range that makes a ride deemed safe. This height is also good because it maximizes the amount of PE we can have on this ride. It will cause the ride to last the whole way through successfully while being safe at the same time.

For the first hill we have settled for a 3 meter height that the car will be able to successfully go over without exerting to much energy into thermal. If the height of the hill is greater than the height of the initial drop then the car will not be able to make it over due to not having enough total energy possessed in the car. We have decided on this height because we know it will make it over with enough energy for the loop as well. As for the height of the next part of the ride, the loop, we have decided on a height of 2 meters. It is safe and a short enough height the that car is able to make it all the way through as the PE and KE are converted from the store of total energy.

The total energy will be unchanging due to the law of conservation of energy. Energy cannot be created nor destroyed which means that when the PE and KE are a bit lower as the ride goes. It doesn't mean the total energy has gone down, but some of the energy has been converted to useless energy like thermal energy that is a result of friction. This means that as the ride goes on it will slow down a bit and make it harder for the car to make it up higher obstacles.

Finally, for the mass of the car, we have concluded on a mass of 60 kilograms. Mass does not affect speed and therefore lighter doesn't mean faster,  but mass does affect energy. Whether the car was 50 kg or 56 kg at the end of the ride it was always a velocity of 8.26 m/s.However, if we have a car with more mass, it will increase the amount of PE the car has at the beginning which helps us maximize KE at the bottom of hills. If we can get all of the energy numbers to be safe but as fun as they can be, I believe we could make a very entertaining ride for the park.

