My roller coaster design will be fun as well as safe and would be a great addition to the Gonzales's amusement park. 

To start, my drop will be 3.5 meters high. I am doing this because when I had my height at 3m, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 7.66 m/s. When I increased the height to 4m, the speed at the bottom of the drop also increased to 8.84 m/s. This is a direct relationship between drop height and speed. The relationship between height and PE is also direct, and when the height of the drop increases the TE increases. For example, when I tested the drop height of 2m, the PE at the top was 977 Joules at the top. When I increased the height to 5m, the PE increased to 2443 Joules. Both PE and TE increase when the height increased.I noticed that PE+KE=TE. For instance, when my height was set to 2m, the TE was 977, the KE at the bottom was 977, but the PE was 0. When my height was set to 5m, the TE was 2443, meaning the KE at the bottom was 2442, and the PE is 1. The PE transfers into KE and this shows that the more PE and KE, the more TE you have. 

Next, the height of my hill and the loop will be 3.25 meters high. I am choosing this height because I tested relationships between height of the drop and hill, the only trial that successfully made it to the end was when the hill height was lower than the drop height. For instance, when the drop height was 3.5m, the car only made it to the end when the hill height was 2m. When the hill was 5m or 3.5m, the car did not make it to the end. If my loop and hill heights are 3.25, they are short enough for the car to make it over but still tall enough for it to be fun. Also, energy is transformed into PE to KE as the roller coaster goes along the track, but no energy is ever lost. When the TE remained as 2443 during the trial for 5m drop, this proves the Law of Conservation of Energy. No energy is lost or created, it is just transferred into PE or KE. That way while my car is going down the roller coaster, the TE will always remain the same. Since the hill and loop heights are shorter than the initial drop, the car will have enough energy to make it to the end of the ride.

In addition to the heights, I needed to make a decision on the car mass. When testing the mass of the car, I realized that the car mass doesn't affect the speed at all. For example, when my car mass was set to 40 kg, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.27 m/s. When I increased the mass to 50 kg, the speed at the bottom of the drop remained the same at 8.27 m/s. On the other hand, the more mass you have, the more TE you have which means you also have more KE and PE. For instance, when I had 40kg as my mass, my PE at the top was 1955. When I increased the mass to 60kg, my PE increased to 2933. I want to make sure I have enough energy to make it to the end and increasing mass will increase the energy, including both KE at the bottom and PE at the top. I chose a final mass of 50 kg so that my car will have enough energy to make it to the end but it doesn't matter the mass for the speed since the mass doesn't change speed.

Lastly, my roller coaster will be fun and exciting because the initial drop height of 3.5 m is about as close to the max speed of 8.4 m/s, without passing it. When I tested the drop of 3.5 m, my total speed was 8.3 m/s, which is fast enough so my riders will have tons of fun, but they won't get hurt because it's not too fast. I made the hill and loop heights as high as I could so that the car would make it to the end, but also not too high so that they would get stuck at the top. 

I hope you consider my design in your amusement park!