Hello Gonzales, 
I have been doing research on creating your roller coaster and I have come to a conclusion on how we should build it. 
You have to have an initial drop of 3.5m because you will then have the most speed possible while also being safe. I know that 3.5m is the best drop because from my data a drop from 5m had a speed at the bottom of the drop of 9.83m/s/s which would not be safe, but when we tried decreasing the drop height to 4m the speed decreased 8.84 m/s/s some but not enough. That is why we decided to go with 3.5 m/s/s because it will be safe enough and still enjoyable.
Then from the drop we should go straight into the loop to make sure we have the most amount of energy to get through the loop. We know the loop has to have a lower height than the initial drop to make it through the loop. The loop and hill have the same relationship so we need enough energy to get through the loop and then continue to get over the hill. The loop should be 2 meters because we know that if the initial drop height is lower than the hills or loops the cart won't be able to make it over because it doesn't have enough energy. After the cart gets through the loop then it will lose some energy from nonusable energy and we then have to make the height of the hill lower at about 1.5m just to make sure it will make it over. We wouldn't want anyone to get stuck in the roller coaster so the heights of hills are very important.
For the mass of the car, we want to have the most amount of people we can and not affect the energy. From my data, I learned that mass does not affect speed. When the mass was 60kg the speed was 8.84 m/s/s but when the mass was 40kg the speed was still 8.84m/s/s. We should make the mass 50kg because if it is too heavy the energy will be affected and may have the chance to not make it over the hill.
Our ride will make it to the end and we can confirm that because of the law of conservation of energy. From that law we know energy can't be created nor destroyed so it will be transferred throughout the ride. It starts all PE and when it goes down the hill it is KE, and as friction affects the cart if will become non-useable energy like thermal energy. if we have all of our hill heights correct we should be able to keep enough energy through the ride and still have it be fun and safe. 
