Dear Gonzales Family,
        To ensure that your rollercoaster is fun and safe, I have come up with the best height of the initial drop, hill, and loop, as well as the mass of the cart. For the height of the initial drop, my team and I have run experiments to find the best height that will create the perfect speed for the rest of the ride. We know that if the speed is over 8.4 m/s the ride could be lethal, so through our data, the initial height should be 3.5 meters high. This is because our data it shows that when the initial height was over 3.5, such as 4 or 5 m, the speed at the bottom of the hill and the end of the ride were 8.84 m/s and 9.88 m/s. As for heights below 3.5 meters, such as 3, the speed was only about 7.66 m/s, which is low enough to decrease the overall enjoyment of the ride. Therefore, knowing that the height of the hill has a direct relationship with speed, we know that the amount of PE at the top the initial height (and the total energy in the system) is controlled based on relative distance from the earth. This is because gravity is the force bringing the cart down, meaning that the greater the height of the object the more time the object has to accelerate and will therefore have a greater speed.
        For the height of the hill necessary for the ride, we decided that the hill height should be 3 meters high. This makes the most sense because it will be high enough for the enjoyment of passengers, but the cart will also make it over the hill. We know that this height of a hill will allow the cart to go over because the cart cannot make it over a hill at a higher height than the initial drop. This can be explained through the data we found. The data shows that when the initial drop height was 4 m and the hill height was 4 or 4.5 m, the cart could not make it over the hill, but when the hill height was even 3.5 m the cart made it over. This makes sense because the amount of energy in a system is based on the initial drop height. Therefore, the amount of energy the cart contains based on its relative height cannot allow it to make it over hill heights that need more energy to get over. As for the loop in the rollercoaster, I would choose a height of 3 meters based on all the data we received about hill height and knowledge energy.
        The mass of the cart will not matter. Through a series of experiments, we found that no matter the mass of the cart the speed of the ride was not affected. For example, when we put a cart with a mass of 40 kg. On the drop the speed at the bottom of the drop, top of the hill, and the end of the ride were all relatively the same as the cart that was 60 kg (the speed at the bottom: 9.87-9.89, the speed at the top: 4.46-4.68, the speed at the end: 9.88.) This data also explains that the mass of the cart does not affect the PE, KE, or total energy because the energy in the system does not change depending on the mass. We know this because an object is pulled down by the earth's gravity at the same rate no matter the amount of mass, therefore the speed and energy are not affected. The Law of Conservation of Energy helps to show that my choices in design make the most sense because all the decisions I made consist of the fact that energy cannot be created or destroyed. For example, in our initial height to hill height, it is key to know that the amount of potential energy at the top is transferred into kinetic energy as it goes down. Then, all the PE is turned into KE and the cart uses that kinetic (motion) energy to make it up the next hill.