This is my final design for a roller coaster that not only ensures fun, but safety as well. The first proposal is to have an initial drop height of 3.5 meters. A drop height of 5 meters created an unsafe speed of 9.89 m/s/s, and a drop height of 3.5 meters gave us a perfect fun and safe speed of 8.27 m/s/s. As you can see, higher initial drops mean higher speeds, which can become unsafe. 3.5 meters is tall enough to give us speed, but the right amount to ensure safety. This height will also give us a good amount of potential energy, since increasing height also increases potential energy. This potential energy will be converted into kinetic energy throughout the ride, which is more potential energy will create more kinetic energy on the ride. My second suggestion is to have a mass of 50 kg. Mass increases potential energy, which means that mass increases the kinetic energy, and overall total energy. Also, the mass of the cart will not effect the speed, which ensures the safety aspect. When keeping the initial drop height the same, a 45 kg cart had a sped of 8.56 m/s/s, and a 55 kg cart had a speed of 8.56 m/s/s. This shows that speed is not effected by the mass of the cart, which is why a 50 kg mass ensures a perfect amount of speed and energy. After the initial drop, having a loop of 3 meters will give the ride a very fun aspect. The loop has to be smaller than the initial drop, due to the law of conservation of mass and total energy. The total energy of the roller coaster does not change throughout the ride because the law of conservation of energy tell us that energy cannot be created or destroyed. This is why I chose to have a height and mass that will give us a high total energy, since no new energy can be created throughout the ride. The total energy converts between potential energy and kinetic energy throughout the coaster. So although PE and KE change, total energy doesn't. As the cart moves up the loop, the kinetic energy will convert into potential, whilst the total energy remains the same. Because there will not be total kinetic energy, the loop needs to be smaller than the drop in order for the cart to make it over. I also suggest having a hill of 2.5 meters after the loop. I choose this height for the same reason I chose the loop height; it has to be smaller than the prior loop in order to have enough kinetic energy to make it over. This also means the hill height has to be significantly lower than the initial drop height. I believe this will make the best safe and fun roller coaster.