I think that the mass of the car should be 40 kilograms and the height of the initial drop should be 3.5 meters. I think the mass of the car should be 40 kilograms because the data shows that the mass of the car doesn't matter. It shows this because no matter the mass, tested at 60, 58, 56, and 54 kilograms, the speed of the car was always the same. That is, at any given point throughout the ride. Not consistently over the course of the entire ride. For example, regardless of mass, the speed at the bottom of the initial drop was always 8.27 m/s. In addition, the speed was always 4.47 m/s at the top of the hill and 8.26 m/s at the end of the ride. The reason I've picked 40 kilograms specifically if the mass doesn't matter is because that will amount to the cheapest amount of money you have to spend on materials to make the cars.

I think the initial drop height should be 3.5 meters. I think this because my data found it to be the highest point at which the maximum speed reached on the ride would be less than 8.4 m/s. The data shows this because at a height of 5 meters, the maximum speed was 9.88 m/s, but at a height of 3.5 meters, the maximum speed was 8.27 m/s. Another important factor of considering the height of the initial drop is the height of any potential hills. We found that the hills or loops or general other elements of a ride must be shorter than the initial drop because that initial drop holds PE equal to the total energy of the ride. This means that that amount of PE must be at least the amount of energy required to finish the ride. Furthermore, because the ride is a closed system, we will need to rely on the initial mechanical energy for the duration of the ride.

We also found that having a height of 3.5 meters will give the car a reasonable and middle-of-the-road amount of energy. At heights of 4 and 5.03 meters, the cars' total energies were 2,351 joules and 2,353 joules respectively. However, at heights of 2 and 3 meters, the cars' total energies were 1,956 joules. As a result of using a system that did not include friction, the total energy was equal to the cars' potential energies at the beginning and very nearly their kinetic energies at the end.

Another reason I've picked 3.5 meters as the safest height for the roller coaster is because while the speed will be unaffected, the total energy will not. The data shows that with a mass of 40 kilograms, the total energy of the car was 1,565 joules, but with a mass of 60 kilograms, the total energy was 2,348 joules. Once again, because the system doesn't have any friction, the total energy or total mechanical energy is simply the combined PE and KE at any given point.

The law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, merely transferred from one form to another. This means that in a closed system, no energy will be gained or lost. And being a closed system, the roller coaster and car will neither gain or lose energy throughout the ride. The energy it has will be transferred between kinetic and potential, but the total will stay the same. This, one last time, explains that the total energy of a system is equal to all of the different types of energy in the system added together. Which, once more, is simply PE and KE in a system like this that doesn't have friction. This means that the amount of energy the ride has to begin with needs to be at least the amount of energy it will need to finish the ride. Finally, this makes sense with what I said earlier about how the initial drop has to be the tallest part of a ride relying solely on mechanical energy.