Hello Gonzales family, me and my team have the safest and most exciting roller coaster for you. We are thinking that the initial drop height should be 3.5 meters high. When the initial drop is high there is more PE. So when we have more PE that means that in total we have more total energy. For example in our data when the hill height was 2 meters the PE is 977 joules and the total energy was 977j.  It would also affect how much KE we would have, if we increase the initial drop then the KE increases because they are directly related. This means not only does the hill affect PE and KE it also affects total energy. Also we would have more speed since the PE and KE is increasing.  

We are next thinking that the hill height should be 3 meters high. If we have the initial drop at 3.5m and the hill at 3m then it will be just enough to get up the hill while still being fun. The way we know that it will have enough energy to make it up the hill is from energy transfer. When the cart goes down the initial drop it's PE is being transferred into KE. The speed will get faster as the energy is being transferred between PE and KE. When the car starts to go up the hill the KE will then start to transfer back into PE since it's on top of the hill. We know this all because of our data, for example when the initial drop was 2m the PE at the top of the hill was 980j. In our data the KE at the top of the hill was 1463j. Since newtons law states that energy can't be made or destroyed this means that when the energy transfers, if some is lost that means that it was transferred into not useful energy. 

We are thinking of 60kg for a car mass.  The mass of the car affects PE because when you have more mass the PE goes up. in our data when the mass was 40kg the PE was 1955j. When the mass was 60kg the PE was 2933. The mass also affects the KE because when you have more mass you have more KE. Our data shows that when the mass is 40kg the Ke is 1953j. When the mass is 60kg the Ke is 2927j. The mass of the car how ever does not affect the speed because gravity will continue to pull the car to the center of the earth at the same rate of 9.8. 