Our initial drop height will be a final 3,6 metres tall.

Our drop height is 3,6 metres because drop height directly affects speed. In other terms, speed is increased when drop height is increased and the other way around. To support this, when the drop height was 4 metres, our speed at the bottom of the drop was 8,84 m/s, and when our drop height was 4,5 metres, our speed at the bottom of our drop was 9,38 m/s. We chose 3,6 metres as to have a fast and enjoyable ride, but be slow enough to not injure any passengers.

Our hill heights and loop heights were 2,5 for loops and 3 metres for hills since our speed cannot be changed from our starting potential energy at the top of our initial drop height. All obstacle heights are designed to give enough room to reach maximum kinetic energy at the bottom so we are able to clear the remaining hills/loops. If an obstacle is the same height as our initial drop height or higher, our cart will not make it over the obstacle, so we needed to keep their heights lower. This is shown in our data, where our drop height was 4 metres and our hill height was 4 metres. When we ran the test, the cart had 12 joules of kinetic energy left, which was not enough to make it over the hill. Speaking of joules, let's talk about the mechanical energy in play.

Potential Energy (PE) is also called stored energy, and you can just call Kinetic Energy (KE) motion and whatnot. These put together, or PE + KE, give you total energy.  Total Energy cannot be changed and is the sum of all energies at play. This can mean potential energy, kinetic, sound, thermal, or whatever you can think of. An important thing to note is that our simulation was frictionless, so we could not have any sound or thermal energy. While we're on the topic of energy, let's talk about the relationship between PE and KE. When the cart is at the top of the hill and idle, our KE is 0 joules and our PE is our total energy. When our cart is moving down, we are converting PE into KE, which in turn gives us speed. In an environment where friction is present, PE can turn into non-mechanical energy. (ex: thermal, sound.) When moving up a hill or loop, our KE is being converted back into PE, or what's left of the KE.

Our carts mass is 50 kilograms, but regardless of what we choose, it wouldn't matter. Mass, when put into the energy equations, does not affect anything about speed. Mass doesn't affect energy, either. Looking at our data, a mass of 40 kilograms gives us 8,27 m/s at the bottom of our drop, and 50 kilograms also gives us 8,27 m/s. At the time of our design, we did not know that mass had no effect on speed, so we chose an in-between.

Our ride is enjoyable because its top speed isn't anywhere dangerous and reaches over 100 miles per hour on a regular basis. Our thrilling obstacles will leave our passengers overjoyed after the ride is complete, even with our limited options. Lastly, our ride is safe, as mentioned before, because our top speed does not exceed anywhere over 8,80 m/s, which is dangerous for passengers. Please note that our top speed will never go beyond the cap of 8,80 m/s because of the Law of Conservation of Energy. It states that energy cannot be created nor destroyed, so no energy will be added to go under our minimum or over our maximum speed.