My team has created a roller coaster design that will make the ride both fun and safe for the passengers.
Our proposed drop height is 4 meters. This drop height will give the car lots of potential energy because the formula for potential energy is PE = mgh. Because height is multiplied in the equation, more height will give the car more PE. For example, when I tested a drop height of 2 meters, there were 938 Joules of potential energy at the top. When I tested a drop height of 3 meters, there were 1290 Joules of potential energy at the top. However, this drop height will also make sure that the car does not go too fast, because a higher drop height will give the car more speed. In my trials, when there was an initial drop height of 3.25 meters, the car was going at 7.97 m/s at the bottom of the drop. When there was an initial drop height of 5 meters, there car had a speed of 9.89 m/s at the bottom of the drop. This shows that a higher drop height gives the car more speed, so 4 meters will make sure that the car goes fast enough, without exceeding safety limits.
My loop height and hill height will be 3 meters. I know that loop and hill heights need to be smaller than the initial drop height, or they will not make it all the way over. With an initial drop height of 3, the car did not make it over a 4 meter hill, but the car did make it over a 2 meter hill. This hill and loop height of 3 meters is less than the drop height of 4 meters, so the car will make it over the hills and loops, but they will still be big enough so that the ride will be fun and exciting. This will also allow the ride to fit within the speed limits. 
My proposed car mass is 50 kg. This mass will give the car more energy so that it will make it through the ride. Mass is in both of the energy formulas, so we know that increasing it will increase the energy. This mass will not affect the speed, because mass does not affect speed. with a car mass of 54 kg and a car mass of 48 kg, both cars were going 7.66 m/s at the bottom of the hill.
I know that my ride will be safe, fun, exciting, and it will make it through the ride. It fits within the speed requirements, and it has many hills and loops. Also, it will make it through the whole ride because the Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy can't be created or destroyed, so the car will always have the same amount of energy. As the car goes down a hill, the potential energy doesn't disappear, it just turns into kinetic energy. Also, when going up a hill, the car's kinetic energy transfers to potential energy. 