Dear Gonzales family, 
My team has come up with many ideas to create a roller coaster that is fun, yet safe, and it can make it to the end of the ride without stopping. 
Our first idea is to have the initial drop height at 3.5 meters. We think it should be at this height because the speed will be higher, but not over the limit. When we tested a drop height of 3.5 meters, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.27 m/s. This is a high speed, which makes it fun, but it's under the maximum speed of 8.4 m/s. Also, the higher the initial drop, the more potential energy there is. When I tested a height of 5 meters, the potential energy at the top of the drop was 2443 Joules. When I tested a height of 3 meters, the potential energy at the top of the drop was 1466 Joules. This is because the more height, the greater the potential energy. That potential energy converts to kinetic energy which keeps the car going throughout the entire ride, as long as the hill and loops are shorter than the drop before it. It needs to be this way because if the hill was higher than the initial drop, the car wouldn't have enough energy to make it to the end of the ride. 
This brings me to our second recommendation for the ride. We should have the first hill height at 3 meters. This is because it is shorter than the initial drop height, so it will have enough energy to make it up the hill, and when going down the hill it will have enough kinetic energy to go back up a loop. It will also gain speed. When I had the initial drop height at 3.5 meters and the hill height at 3 meters, the speed after the hill was 8.26 m/s, which is a high speed to keep the car moving fast enough to be fun and safe for the riders. The loop height should be 2.5 meters. It should be at this height for the same reason my hill height is at 3 meters. It will have enough energy and speed to continue the ride, and it's shorter than the hill. After the loop, there should be another hill of 2 meters and a flat section at the end with a height of 1.75 meters. The hill slows it down a little bit and the flat section will slow the car down even more so the car can end the ride safely. Those are all of my recommendations for the heights of our roller coaster. 
Next, my team decided that the mass of the car should be 60 kilograms. It should be at this mass because the more mass, the more potential energy it will have, and that potential energy will convert into kinetic energy to continue moving. For example, when I had a mass of 40 kilograms, the total energy was 1956 Joules. When I increased the mass to 50 kilograms, the total energy increased to 2934 Joules. Mass does not affect speed, though. 
As the potential energy transfers to kinetic energy throughout the roller coaster, the total energy stays the same because the Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy can't be created or destroyed, but it can convert to one another. So while potential and kinetic energy is constantly changing, the total energy stays the same. 
We hope you consider our ideas for your new addition to the theme park!