After going through many experiments, I have found what the best roller coaster can be to keep customers safe well having a enjoyable time.

The first, and most important part of the rolller coaster im going to start off with is the inital drop. The drop will be 3.5 meters because with just the height will be the heighest you can go to keep you safe, with that being said it will make the speed go a lot more faster than if the hight was 2.5 meters. The height relates to the PE because it starts off just having PE at the top of the inital height because the car is at rest. The height 3.5. This also gives lots of PE to start off with to get the ride going. As soon as you start to go down the hill, the KE´s numbers will start to increase. Then the PE decreases until it gets to zero at the bottom because PE is the result of  the energy and KE is more of the product of PE. PE and height have a direct relationship because the PE goes up with the speed.

The first hill is going to be 2.5 meters, that way your gaining enough PE to make you up the hill, with that being said if the inital hight was lower than you wouldn´t be able to have high hights for the hills and loop. If you had your height higher than the inital drop you would not be able to make it up the hill. With the height right now, you will still go up rapidly fast and gain PE to make the KE be fast going down the hill. The next part is when total energy starts to play a role, once you reach the top of the hill, your at the most the PE is going to be for the hill. When your transforming into KE going down the hill is where it becomes total energy. Total energy cannot be created or destroyed so, when going down the hill, the speed stays the same but the PE and KE change throughout the roller coaster. The second hill wil be 1.5 meters, to keep the speed the same. This relates to Law of Conservation of energy because its being stayed at the same rapid speed throughout the roller coaster, instead of changing speeds. The last part of the roller coaster is going to be a loop. The loop will be 2.25 meters long, I choose that so that way you have enough PE to  get you over the roller coaster, but still make it so the height will be tall and fast. Total energy plays a big part of this role because as your going up the hill, the heat hits the tracks from the mass of the car and going so high up, that makes the coaster accelorate on the loop. This also relates to the Law of  Conservation because the speed stays the same going up, and down the hill. 

Lastly is the mass of the cart. I will  have the mass as 50 kg because the more mass you have the faster you will accelorate forward throughout the ride well being safe. I wanted the mass to be heavy but, to still leave room for the mass to not be at the maximum so it can make it over the hills and not get anyone hurt. Mass and speed relate to eachother because the heavier the cart will be, the faster it will accelorate whendrop when heading down the hill .  With the mass being heavy the inital drop will go faster down the hill it will acelorate up the hill and gorapidlly fast down the hill ending with a fast finsh to end the roller coaster. The thermal energy is a result for every piece of the roller coaster overall. Thermal energy comes from the result of the heat against the cart and tracks, but that can also relate to the mass pushing against the tracks, and how fast you are going from the hills and drops.

Thankyou for your time to read through my idea of the perfect roller coaster would be.