      My recommendation for the Gonzales family is to have the drop height at 3.5 meters. This is because when I tested the drop height at a higher height like 4 meters, the PE was 1767 Joules at the top, and KE was 1767 Joules at the bottom. But when I put the drop height at 2 meters the PE was only 883 Joules at the top and the KE was only 883 Joules at the bottom. So I know that the higher the drop height the higher the energy throughout the ride. A high amount of energy will make the ride fast and fun so 3.5 is a good drop height that will give the ride a lot of energy. Another reason why the initial drop shouldn't be higher or lower than 3.5 meters is the speed. In order for the ride to be safe the speed should be around 8.4 m/s or less. The higher the initial drop height the higher the speed throughout the ride. I know this because in my data trials when I put the drop height at 4 meters the speed was 8.83 m/s but when I put the drop height at 3 meters the speed was 7.64 m/s. So if the speed is too high with an initial drop height of 4 meters 3.5 is a good height for the initial drop because the speed won't be unsafe, but the ride will still be a fun pace.

       In order to keep the coaster going the whole time we're going to need to have a hill height of around 3 meters. The hill needs to be smaller than the initial drop in order to make it to the very end of the ride. When I tried a 3.5 or higher meter hill height the car didn't make it to the end because there wasn't enough energy. When the height was 3 meters the car made it to the end. As the car goes down the drop the PE will go down and the KE will go up. At the end of the drop the PE should start rising again in order to get up and down the hill. Another component of making it up the hill is conservation of energy. The law of conservation of energy states that energy can't be created nor destroyed. Meaning energy can change into non-mechanical types of energy. This means it is still present but it is useless for our roller coaster. If there is no friction the energy won't change into a different type. The coaster will continue going if PE and KE never transfer into different types of energy.

      Also, in my model the higher the KE and PE the higher the TE. This is because KE and PE equal TE. One way to get high TE is to have a car with a large mass. I recommend a 60 kg car because in my simulation the PE was 2933 at the top and the KE was 1924 at the bottom with a 60 kg car. But with the 40 kg car the PE was 1955 and the KE was 1951. The only thing we have to worry about with our mass is energy. Mass does not affect the speed of the car therefore, whatever mass gives the most total energy will be the best decision. Because of that a 60 kg car would be best, because there would be more KE and PE which adds up to the total energy when there is no friction. 

     This design is a great choice because it will be very fun but also keep the riders safe. The initial drop height will create tons of speed that will make the ride super fun but not too much that the riders are unsafe. Also the hill height is a good height because they will make it to the end of the ride safely without getting stuck.