Dear Gonzales Family, from our recent experiments we are proposing this coaster design.

The initial drop height should be 3.5 meters and the hill height should 3 meters. We know that the initial drop height and the hill height are related so if the initial drop height is not taller than the hill height, the car will not be able to make it over. We also are aware that you are desiring a speed between 6.7 and 8.4 m/s. Since the initial drop height has a direct relationship with the speed of the car, having an initial drop height of 3.5 will allow the car to gain a top speed of 8.27 m/s. Which is a perfect fast paced speed that is still safe. We also are aware that the height of the initial drop has a direct relationship with the potential energy of the car, Having a drop height of 3.5 meters will cause the car to have a potential energy of 1710 joules. This is because gravity is affecting the car for a longer amount of time therefore transferring more energy. The kinetic energy will also be 1710 joules (if in a friction less environment) which will also cause the car to be in motion for a longer amount of time. The total energy of the car will be 1710 joules as well.

Next the mass of the car will be 55 kg. This is because the more mass the car has, the more energy it will have. A 55 kg car will have a potential energy of 1483 joules which means the total energy would also be 1483 joules. This will also cause the car to have more kinetic energy as it becomes in movement which will allow the car to be in movement for a longer amount of time. We also know that the mass of the car does not have a relationship with the speed of the car. A 40 kg car and a 45 kg car both had a speed of 8.26 m/s, the same at the bottom of the ride. The speed will not change depending on the amount of mass the car (object) has.

The law of conservation of energy states that energy can neither be created nor destroyed. This supports the claim that energy is only transferred from one form to another. The relationship between potential and kinetic energy is constant. We can tell from our experiments that as the coaster car goes into movement, it's potential energy changes to kinetic energy. Though the energy is being transferred depending on the motion of the car throughout the ride, the total energy will always be the same. At the beginning the end or even in the middle of the ride, the potential and kinetic energy added together will always be the total energy. In basic terms the total energy is the total amount of energy used/transferred throughout the ride, or the largest amount of energy the car or object has at any point.

From this coaster design we can ensure a safe but entertaining ride that will bring in many, many clients. Please consider this design.
