Hello Ganzalas family,

I have finished my research on figuring out the best design for a roller coaster for you that is safe and fun. The mass of the car should be 50kg for the safety of the riders. The initial drop should start at 3.5 meters above the ground, as the car starts at the top of the initial drop the car has maximum potential energy and no kinetic energy. According to my data, when I put the initial drop height at 5.0 meters, the car still had max potential energy and no kinetic energy. 

As the car is going down the initial drop the potential energy starts to transfer to kinetic energy. Then when the car is at the bottom of the initial drop it is at max kinetic energy and has no potential energy. As my data says when I put the initial drop at 2.5 meters when the car reached the bottom of the initial drop all the potential energy had transferred to kinetic energy which was maxed kinetic energy and no potential energy. 

After the initial drop, I think the loop should go next with a height of 3 meters above the ground. When the car starts to go around the loop, kinetic energy transfers to potential energy. Then as the car goes down the second half of the loop all the potential energy transfers back to kinetic energy making the car regain speed. This goes with my data because when I put the loop at 2 meters the pattern in energy transfers was the same. 

After the loop, there should be a hill of 2.5 meters in the height. According to my data, as the car goes up the hill, the kinetic energy will transfer to potential energy. When the car reaches the top of the hill it will have the most potential energy. Then as the car keeps going and reaches the bottom of the hill it would have lots of kinetic energy with no potential energy. 

To finish the roller coaster I think there should be half of a hill with a height of 3 meters then the ride will end at the top. As the car goes up the final half hill the car will slow as the kinetic energy transfers to potential energy finishing the ride safely.

This roller coaster is fun and safe because of the relationships between all the energies that are being used. The total energy will stay the same throughout the entire ride, but the energy will transfer from one to another like when the kinetic energy is transferred to potential energy. The energy is never created or destroyed it just changes into different forms of energy.

Another reason this roller coaster will work is because of the relationships between potential energy, kinetic energy, height, and speed. The relationship between potential energy and kinetic energy is when the kinetic energy gets converted to potential energy or when the potential energy gets converted to kinetic energy. The relationship between potential energy and height is directed because height is in the equation to find the potential energy. Potential energy and speed have a direct relationship because speed is in the equation to find the amount of potential energy so every time I change the speed the potential energy changes and every time I change the potential energy the speed changes.