Hello, our group has been working very hard on designing a fun and safe roller coaster to present to you, and here is what we've got. We have come to a decision on our drop height as a safe and fun 3.59 m and we came to this decision because we found that if we in a frictionless world were to have a drop height of anything over that then it would be unsafe and would not meet the speed restrictions. And here is the data to prove it we found that if you have a drop height of 3.59 m it would get you to a max speed of 8.4 m/s but if you were to have a drop height of 4 or 5 m it would be a speed of. 8.83 for a drop height of 4 m and 9.88 for a drop height of 5m. Then we had to come to a decision on our hill and loop heights and we came to a decision as for our first 2 loops we would have a loop height of 2. and if we were to have anything more than that it would not make it over the hill because energy can not be created or destroyed. and for our hill height we have come to a decision of 2.5 m because if it was larger than the original drop height than it would not make it over going back to the law of conservation of energy. and when the cart is going down the hill all of the PE at the top of the ride has gone into KE during the drop and then when it goes up anything then it will change back into PE and some KE. Then they will keep transferring back and forth from each other in a frictionless world. and we had come to a decision on the mass of our cart as 40 kg because the mass of the car does not affect the speed of the cart or the velocity of the cart. and the data shows this because if you have a cart mass of 60 kg compared to 40 kg here would be the difference. at the bottom of the drop for 40kg the speed would be 8.4 m/s but if the mass was 60 kg the speed of the cart would be at the bottom of the drop 8.4. So there would be no change in the speed of the cart no matter what the mass of the cart is. and mass affects the PE at the top of the drop and the amount of total energy during the ride but it does not affect the speed of the cart during the ride. and this ride is safe and exciting because we meet the speed and height and mass and all of the different challenges that were sent at us. And we were able to beat the challenges and make a fun roller coaster that would able to get to the end because there is nothing larger than the initial drop and in a frictionless world energy would stay transferring throughout the ride. until it comes to the flat section at the bottom it will not stop and be a very fun and interesting ride for all passengers. 