Dear Gonzales Family, from our recent experiments we are proposing this coaster design.

The initial drop height should be 3.5 meters and the hill height should 3 meters. This is because if the initial drop height is not taller than the hill height, the car will not be able to make it over. We also know that you are desiring a speed between 6.7 and 8.4 m/s. Having an initial drop height of 3.5 will allow the car to gain a top speed of 8.27 m/s which is a perfect fast paced fun speed that is still safe. We also are aware that having that height of an initial drop will cause the car to have a potential energy of 1710 joules. This is because gravity is affecting and putting a 9.8 force on the car for a longer amount of time. That means that the kinetic energy will also be 1710 joules (if in a friction less environment) which will also cause the car to be in motion for a longer amount of time. The total energy of the car will be 1710 joules as well.

Next the mass of the car will be 55 kg. This is because the more mass the car has, the more energy it will have. A 55 kg car will have a potential energy of 1483 joules which means the total energy would also be 1483 joules. This will also cause the car to have more kinetic energy as it becomes in movement which will allow the car to be in movement for a longer amount of time. We also know that the mass of the car does not affect the speed of the car. A 40 kg car and a 45 kg car both had a speed of 8.26 m/s, the same at the bottom of the ride. The speed will not change.

The law of conservation of energy states that energy can neither be created nor destroyed. This supports the claim that energy is only transferred from one form to another. We can tell from our experiments that as the coaster car goes into movement, it's potential energy changes to kinetic energy. Though the energy is being transferred depending on the motion of the car throughout the ride, the total energy will always be the same. 

From this coaster design we can ensure a safe but entertaining ride that will bring in many, many clients. Please consider this design.
