Dear Gonzales family, 
The drop height of my roller coaster design is 5 meters. This is because you can get the maximum amount of energy from that height, so you will have more speed and velocity. The higher the drop height of the roller coaster, the more speed and energy you will gain throughout the ride. For example, when we tested our drop height as 4m, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.83m/s, compared to the drop height as 5 where the speed at the bottom of the drop is 9.87m/s. The higher the initial drop the more PE it has at the top of initial drop, but it doesn't affect the KE at top of initial drop and that stays at 0. The mass of the roller coaster car does not effect the speed of the roller coaster at all. For example, the mass could be 40kg and it would be 9.87m/s at the end of the ride and it would be the same result for a car mass of 60kg. We chose a mass of 50kg for the car because it is in the middle. The more mass a car has, the more PE it has at top of initial drop and KE at bottom of drop. For example, 50kg at car mass, means it would be about 2446J at initial drop. If the car mass was 60 then the PE would be about 2936, which shows that the more mass a car has the more PE and KE it has. For our first loop we chose the height as 4m because it keeps the ride going and doesnt slow it down, which creates more of a fun factor. After the first loop there is a hill that is at 3m. The hill is at 3m to give it a little bit of a slow down but also keep it fun. Then for the final thing, there is a loop at 2m for a very small ending. Energy cannot be created or destroyed, so if you had friction in a roller coaster design, the total energy would be two different numbers at beginning and end. That is because the law of conservation of energy. The energy didn't dissapeer, rather it transfered into a different energy such as thermal energy. The more PE you have, the more KE you will have because of their equations. PE and KE add up to the total energy usually, but some energy can be converted into different energy such as thermal energy. 