I have created a design proposal that is safe, and exiting. The drop height should be 3 meters because there needs to be enough energy and speed to get the roller coaster to the end, while keeping it at a safe but still at an excitable speed. When I dropped the coaster from 5 meters, the speed at the end of the ride was 9.88 m/s, and that is too fast to still be considered safe. Then when we had the drop height as 4 meters, the speed at the end was 8.84 m/s, and we still thought that it was too fast to still be enjoyable, so that is why we chose 3 meters as our initial drop. Also, when the initial drop was 2.5 meters, the potential energy was 1334 joules at the top and the kinetic energy at the bottom was 1334. Then, when the drop was 5 meters, the potential energy was 2668 at the top and the kinetic energy was 2666 at the bottom. When height increases, so do potential energy, kinetic energy, total energy, and speed. There needs to be enough energy (that is why we are making it 3 meters) so that the coaster makes it to the end of the ride with ease. It is essential to have the initial drop to be higher than any other hills, loops, etc. This is because the law of conservation of energy states that no energy can be created or destroyed, so, there wouldn't be enough energy to make it to the end if there was a hill higher than the initial drop. That is why the loop should be 2.5 meters tall, and the hill height should be 2 meters tall. In addition, I am going to have my mass be 60 kg because when the mass was 40 kg, the total energy was 1958 j, and when the mass was 60 kg, the total energy was 2936 j. I want my coaster to have enough energy so that it makes it to the end successfully, so that is why I choose the coaster with the most mass. It is important to remember that mass doesn't effect speed. When the mass was 40 kg, the speed was 9.8 m/s/s, and when the mass was 50 kg, the speed was 9.38 m/s/s. Lastly, when the mass increases, potential, kinetic, and total energy will all increase. Total energy is the combination of potential, and kinetic energy combined at any time. This is possible because (in a friction less environment) potential energy could go up, and kinetic energy could go down, but the total energy will always stay the same