Dear Gonzales family, we have finalized the design for the new roller coaster. 

For the initial drop height of the coaster we decided on  3.5 meters. This is based off of the data from when we tested different drop heights. When the initial height was 3 meters the PE at the top was 1466J with the KE being 0J. Then at the bottom the KE was 1456J and PE was 1. Next, we tried 4 meters and got 1955J of PE and 0J of KE at the top, then at the bottom 1954J of KE and 1J PE. Finally we did 5 meters and got a PE of 2443J at the initial drop and KE with 1J PE at the bottom and 2442J of KE.  When you have a higher initial drop it dose not only effect energy. A higher or lower drop can also change the speed. Looking at our data it shows that a initial drop height of 4.25 will have a speed of 9.12 m/s at the bottom. Increasing the height to 5 meters the speed at the bottom of the drop went up to 9.89 m/s. 

The intel drop is important because the higher the drop, the more PE. Having a higher PE also means we would have a higher KE and total energy. The relationship between KE and PE is indirect, when PE goes up, KE goes down. As the data has already shown at the top the PE is higher, this is because of the height and that the car is not moving. Then at the bottom the PE is zero because there is no height  and the PE has transferred to KE. To support this we can look at the law of conservation and mass. Energy cant be created or destroyed, so when the PE or KE changes, its just the energy transferring. 

Next on the roller coaster is the hill. For the hills height we choose 3 meters. This is because the hill height has to be less then the initial drop. It needs to be less then the initial drop because if its to high there wont be enough energy to get over the hill, as energy cant be created. When we tested higher then 3 meters the cart was not able to go over. We decided to go with 3 meters because at the top of the hill the 1471PE was J and 0KE. This is less then the energy of the total height at 3.5 meters, therefor making it able to go over the hill. To make the ride more fun we also added a loop with a height of 2.5 meters.For the loop we fallowed the same logic as the hill and made sure to make it smaller then the  the initial drop so there was enough energy to successfully go through. 

Finally for the mass of the car we decided on 60kg. The mass of the car will not effect the speed. When we used a weight of 50kg the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.84, then the speed at the top of hill was 3.07, and finally the speed at the end is 8.83. As we increased the weight of the car to 60kg the speed at the bottom of the intel drop was the same, 8.84, the rest of the data was also the same for the speed of the top of the hill and end of ride. This proves that the mass wont change the speed. The mass dose however change the the total energy. When calculating the energy for PE the equation is mxhxg. And KE's equation is 1/2mxv2. If what your multiplying is bigger, the outcome will be bigger. To even further support that mass changes energy we can look at our data. When we used 40kg for weight the PE was 1955J, at the initial drop, and the 1951J of KE at the bottom of the drop. On the other hand a 60kg cart had 2933J of PE at the initial drop, 2927J of KE at the bottom and the total energy being 2933J.