The Gonzalas family should make the initial drop of the roller coaster 3.5 meters tall and the hill should be 3 meters tall. The initial drop should be 3.5 meters because that gives you the fastest and safest roller coaster. Because according to my data when I put the initial drop height at 3.5 the speed at the bottom of the initial drop was 8.27 Joules which is the best for the most speed you can get without going over 8.4. The hill height needs to be less the 3.5 so that you can get over the hill that's why the best is 3. The higher the initial drop is the more PE you have and the more KE you also have. For example, when I tested the drop height of 3 meters, the PE was 1173 joules. When I increased the drop height to 5 meters, the PE increased and was 1995 joules. The relationship between KE and PE and total energy is that in a fiction-less world, the PE and the top of the initial drop is the total energy, and KE and PE switch off. For example, when the drop height was 3 the PE was 1173 joules and the total energy was also 1173 joules. The hill height should be 3 because it has to be less than the initial drop height to actually get over the hill and make it to the end of the ride. The mass of the car doesn't do anything about the speed but only the energy. The drop height of my roller coaster design is 5 meters. This is because we want more energy and for it to make it over the hills and around the loops. The more height you have the more energy. For example, when I tested the drop height of 3 meters, the PE was 1173 joules. When I increased the drop height to 5 meters, the PE increased and was 1995 joules. The relationship between KE and PE and total energy is that in a fiction-less world, the PE and the top of the initial drop is the total energy, and KE and PE switch off. For example, when the drop height was 3 the PE was 1173 joules and the total energy was also 1173 joules. When the cart goes down the drop KE and PE swap. For example, if the cart is exactly halfway down the hill and the PE was 100 joules and Ke was 0 joules at the top. Then the KE and PE would both be 50 joules There would always be the same amount of PE and total energy in a frictionless world because energy can not be created or destroyed. If the drop height is 5 meters the hill height would have to be smaller than 5 meters. The more mass you have the more KE and PE you have and more total energy.