Dear Gonzales family,

          I am sending you another letter regarding the roller coaster. There were a few flaws in my last letter so this time I am going to make one that is a little more accurate.

          The mass and speed are not afflicted by one another because just because something is heavier than another thing doesn't mean that it will fall faster. The reason something will fall faster than another thing is because of its surface area of it. Let's say that if someone drops a piece of paper and a basketball, the basketball will hit the ground first. This is because it has less surface area and is more aerodynamic. But as soon as you crumple that same piece of paper up then it will have the same amount of aerodynamics as the basketball which will make them fall at the same speed. This will cause there to be more kinetic energy which gives the effect of falling from a high place. This causes the human body to send lots of adrenaline through your body which makes it so people's hearts begin pumping blood faster making them have an enjoyable time.
          Once the initial drop is at a good height, and the riders are having a good time then it's onto the understanding of the Law of Conservation of Energy. The Law of Conservation of Energy states "Energy can't be created or destroyed." this means that while it may seem like all of the potential energy is being destroyed and a bunch of kinetic energy takes its place, that is not what is happening. The thing that is actually happening is as the kart begins to move all of the potential energy is converted into kinetic energy. This happens because potential energy is energy that is in an object that is not on the ground but is also not moving. Kinetic energy is the energy in a moving object. Once the kart begins to move that potential energy is no longer in that object. It is in an object that is moving which makes it have to become kinetic energy because PE is energy at rest.
          The total energy is found by adding up all of the PE and all of the KE, but also if there is friction then you must also add up how much thermal energy there is. If there is 2000KE, 1250PE, and 950 thermal energy you would need to add those in order to get the TE which is 4200TE. If the hill is taller than the initial drop then it will get stuck. The kart will get stuck because by the time it begins to go up the hill all of the KE that was made from the PE while going down the initial drop would be turned back into PE due to gravity. The height of an object increases the amount of PE an object has because gravity tries pulling that object down to the ground but can't because of the normal force of the track.

                         -Alex Lautz