Dear Gonzales family, here are some recommendations for the best roller coaster design. The height affects PE, KE, total energy, and speed. No matter how high or low the height is the PE, KE, total energy, and speed will always change with the height. It affects the PE, KE, total energy, and speed by changing its values. For example, the higher the height the more PE and less KE. The lower the height the more KE and less PE. The total energy is affected by the height because the higher the height the more total energy in the end. And lastly, the speed is affected by the height because the higher the height the more speed it will pick up. And lower heights will have less speed to pick up. 
The mass affects PE, KE, total energy, and speed. The heavier the cart is, the faster it will go down the hill speed-wise. PE and KE are affected by mass because the more mass, the more PE there will be. Same with KE, the more mass, the more KE there will be. And lastly, the total energy is affected by mass because the more mass the cart has, the more energy will be involved. 
The relationship between PE, KE, and total energy is all in energy transformation. Some people think that when you go down a hill the PE disappears while KE shows up. But actually, they are just transferring. PE turns into thermal energy while KE comes into place. But while going up a hill KE turns into thermal energy while PE comes into place. And lastly, the total energy is related to PE and KE because whatever PE and KE are will add up to make the sum of total energy. 
My group decided for the height of the initial drop to be 3.50 meters. And the hill height and loop to be 3.00. We chose this because any number over 3.50 is unsafe for somebody to be riding our roller coaster. And we chose the hill height and loop height to be 3.00 because they are tall enough to be fun but still safe. 
My group decided also for the mass to be 50 kilograms. We picked 50 kilograms because it was not too light or too heavy which helped contain a great speed to get to the end of our roller coaster design. 
And lastly, the Law of conservation of energy affects our design because however high our initial drop height is, the lower the hill height and loop need to be. Or else the roller coaster cart will not make it to the end of our ride. 
I think that these recommendations will largely affect our roller coaster design. Thank you.