Dear Gonzales family, over the past few weeks, I have learned a lot about all the components that go into a roller coaster. With my findings, I conclude that this design is the best one for you. starting with the initial drop, I believe that the height should be 3.5. I know that this is the best height because my data shows that at a drop of 3.75, it exceeds the limits of humans by creating a speed of 8.56. This is because the taller the initial drop, the more PE and KE you will get because of the relationship between height and PE and KE in a frictionless environment. Height and total energy react the same as the KE and PE. if we go with a drop height of 3.5, it will still be fun and exciting, with still being safe. Height and mass are closely related because of the amount of energy you get when you put the two together. the greater the mass, the more energy. The greater the height, the more energy. With both factors at max, it will have the best experience for the rider. we took care of the initial height, now let's move on to the mass of the cart. I think that the mass of the cart should be 60kg. This allows for the max amount of KE and PE without increasing the height. this also allows for more passengers to fit in one ride which can help save money. I think that the mass should be 60kg because my data shows that the amount of mass doesn't affect the speed of the cart. For example, when the mass of the cart was 40kg, it had the same speed as the cart when it has a mass of 60kg. The relationship between mass and PE, KE, and total energy varies with the amount of mass in the cart. The relationship between speed and mass is different because it doesn't fluctuate. It stays consistent between the different masses the speed will always remain the same. Energy is not created nor destroyed says the law of conservation of energy. This affects my design because it shows that the amount of energy you start with, will be the total energy you have at the end. This demon-straights the relationship between PE and KE and TE. This shows that energy is never lost and is just converted into different forms of that same energy. At the end of the ride, the amount of energy will always remain the same.