Dear Gonzales Family, I believe I have some ways to Improve the ride with still making it a fun and safe experience. First, I think the heights of the parts of my roller coaster will be safe. My initial drop will be 3.10 my hill will be 2.5 and the loop can be your choice because based on my data your potential energy always has to be less than what it is at the start so your loop will have to be less than 2.5. Next. you will have to know about height and mass. Height and mass are important variables you need for your ride but you will need to keep at a moderate amount to much could make the ride unsafe. I choose height and mass because mass and height do not affect each other. Because mass cancels out the Pe and KE equations so the equation you have left will always be the same number due to the mass canceling out from both equations. Based on my data the mass and height always had the same speed due to the mass canceling out in both equations. Also, you need to keep an eye on height individually. Height can make PE, KE, TE, and speed all go up. Based on when I dropped the roller coaster at 4.5 and 3.75 I got 9.4 and 8.5. This shows me that the higher up I will go the longer the roller coaster has to travel meaning the longer time it has to pick up energy and speed. The more mass you also put on the coaster will increase the amount of PE and KE your ride will have based on my data. When it had a mass of 40 it had a PE and Ke of around 1500 and with a mass of 55, it was about 2100. This shows me that more amount of mass will also bump up the PE and KE. But the mass however doesn't affect the speed because the equation will be the same because mass always gets canceled out in each equation leaving the same equation left each time. In my data, it was always 8.27 on all masses. Along with that, I will have to share the relationship between PE, KE, and TE. The PE and KE will always equal the TE. But energy transfer tells me that the PE can be the KE and the KE can be the PE. I know this because no energy can be created not destroyed just transferred. Just like when my cart went down the hill the PE transferred into Ke. But the TE will always be the same at the end of the ride if you total up every energy. But the law of conservation of energy will also come into play when coming up with a design because you will always know that the energy will not be lost. This tells me that when coming up with a design you and I will know that you will not lose energy in the ride it will be converted. Overall I hope these ideas will help the ride.