I have gathered some evidence to help the Gonzales family come up with the most successful roller coaster design. The drop height of my roller coaster design is 3.5 meters. This is because the higher the initial drop, the more energy the car will have. This is important because if I want the car to make it to the end of the tack, it needs to have enough energy. For example, when I tested an initial drop of 5 meters, the total energy was 2443 Joules. But, when I tested lower drops like 4 meters, the total energy was only 1955 Joules. The kinetic and potential energy need to add up to the total energy, (since there's no friction). Consequently, when I decreased the drop height, the potential, kinetic, and total energy decreased. The reason I am not having a higher drop height is because of speed. If the drop height was any higher, the speed would exceed 8.4 m/s. I know this because when I tested a drop height of 4, the speed was 8.84 m/s, but when I tested a height of 3.5, the speed was 8.26 m/s at the bottom of the drop. This is because the higher the drop, the more potential energy, and the more potential energy, the more kinetic energy. When there's more kinetic energy, there's more velocity, which means more speed.

My hill height is going to be 2 meters high. Since potential energy turns into kinetic energy, the hill needs to be high enough to create a lot of potential energy at the top that turns into kinetic energy as it goes down. It needs to be high enough, but it also can't be higher than the initial drop otherwise the car won't be able to get up the hill. When I tested the drop height of 3.51 meters, the potential energy at the top was 1718 Joules, but when I lowered it to 2.5 meters, the potential energy at the top also lowered to 1210 Joules. Another factor is the speed. It can't exceed 8.4 m/s, but as long as it's shorter than the initial drop, it won't.

The mass of my car is going to be 60 kilograms because that is the highest it can be. My data shows that when the car mass is 60 kilograms, the total energy is 2937 Joules. When I lowered it to only 40 kilograms, the total energy also went down to only 1958 Joules. The more mass the car has, the more energy which, as I explained, is necessary to ensure that the car can make it to the end. When a car with more mass is at the top of a hill, it has more potential energy. This will in turn give it more kinetic energy because the potential energy will turn into kinetic energy. The mass of the car won't affect speed at all because there is no friction. This is because things fall at the same acceleration no matter their mass, so in the equations velocity ends up getting canceled out. In my data trials, the speed at the end of the ride was 8.26 m/s for a mass of 40, 50, 54, and 60 kg.

The law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, so this means that it is only transferred. Potential energy and kinetic energy always add up total energy if it is in a friction less environment. If there is friction, energy will be converted into thermal energy, sound energy, and other types. This means that in an environment with friction, potential and kinetic energy will not add up to the total energy. I think that if the Gonzales family keeps these things in mind, they will be able to make a very successful roller coaster.