 Here is my design for the new roller coaster at the Gonzales family amusement park. I suggest the height of the initial drop be 3.5 meters. During my experiment when the height of the initial drop was high, the PE was also high. I also found out that 3.5 meters were the highest the coaster could go with it being safe. During my experiment, I also found out that PE and KE have a direct relationship so this means when the PE goes up so does the KE.  So if at the top of the initial drop, the PE went up, then at the bottom of the coaster, the KE would go up as well. During my experiment, I also found out that TO has a direct relationship with PE and KE. I found this out because while in my experiment I saw when the PE went up the TO also went up, and when the KE went up the TO had done the same. During the experiment, I also saw that while the cart was going down a slope the PE transformed into KE. The reason why it changes is that the law of conservation of energy, states that "energy can not be created or destroyed." I also found out throughout the ride the TO had stayed the same, no matter what. After the drop, I would like to put a loop in the coaster I would like to put the loop before the hill, and I would like the loop to be 2.0 meters. The reason why I would like the loop to be smaller than the initial drop is that otherwise, it would not go over. The reason why is if the initial drop had a smaller height it would not have enough PE to go over. The same goes for my hill height which I would like to be 1.5 meters. I found this information when I was doing my experiments when the loop/hill height is higher than the initial drop it will not make it over because the KE from the initial drop is not enough to carry over into it. The next thing I want is the cart to be 55 kg, I would like it to be heavy but not insanely heavy. During my experiment, I found out that if the cart weight was heavier then it would have more PE. Then since the PE transfers over to KE the KE would be higher too. So when the mass is higher the more PE it will have, and KE.