The initial drop of our roller coaster is 3.5m. We pick this height because based on our data if our drop height was anything above that, the coaster would be to dangerous. For example, if we chose 5m the speed of our roller coaster would be 9.89(m/s). This is way above how fast our roller coaster can go without it being dangerous or not fun. We pick our mass to be 50kg. This is because if we were to add friction to our roller coaster it would make it down to the end not to fast, or slow.

Height can affect PE and KE by showing from our data. That the PE and always the same as the total energy and the KE subtracted from the top of the initial drop and bottom. Height can also affect the speed of our roller coaster because. Looking at our data when we had out initial drop at 5m the speed was 9.89(m/s). When we decreased the height we saw in our data that the speed went down to 8.84 when we set it to 4m. 

Mass can affect the PE and KE because according to the data the more mass you add the faster the PE. At the end of the roller coaster the more mass lead to having a larger KE. If the roller coaster had friction the mass would as well affect the speed. It can also affect the total energy for example. When the car mass `50kg the total energy was 2448. When we decreased the mass to 40kg the total energy went down to 1998.

The law conservation of energy, (the amount of energy is neither created nor destroyed). It can affects our roller coaster build because the sum of PE,KE will always remain constant. Meaning you can't create the PE or KE or destroy it.

The relationship of PE and KE is almost never ending. For example, when our roller coater goes down the initial drop all the PE will convert into KE. Then when it gets to the end of the ride the KE will convert back to the PE making it a never ending relationship. Another relationship is the relationship about the initial drop and hill height. This can have an affect on our roller coaster because the hill height always has to have a lower height than the initial drop. For example when we test the hill height to the same height as our initial drop or car never made it over the hill, meaning we always have to have a bigger initial drop height. 