A design I recommend for the Gonzales family is to have the height of the initial drop be 3.5 m, the height of the loop should be 3 m, the height of the hill should be 2 m, and the mass should be 50 kg. 

The height of the initial drop should be 3.5 m because more height results in more energy. Since the requirements say that the max speed is 8.4 m/s/s and the min speed is 6.7 m/s/s, that is why 3.5 m would be best because the speed meets the requirements. When the initial drop height is greater, there will be more energy which will result in more speed. In the KE formula velocity and the height is include so if there is more height, there will be more speed/velocity. Height and PE, KE, and total energy have a direct relationship because when you increase the height, the amount of energy also increases. To prove this, when I tested an initial drop height of 2 m the amount of PE was 887 j, but when I tested the drop height of 5 m the amount of PE at the top of the initial drop was 2,179 j. The PE at the top of the drop equaled the KE at the end of the ride which equaled the total energy. So as you can see, when there was more height, there was more PE and KE. Another reason why we chose the height of the initial drop to be 3.5 m is because when there is more height there is also more speed. Height and speed also have a direct relationship and to prove this, when the height was 5 m the speed at the end of the ride was 9.88 m/s and when the height was 3 m the speed at the end of the ride was 7.65 m/s. The initial drop height must be greater than the hill height because the greater the height the more energy and if the hill height is greater there won't be enough energy that is needed to make it over the hill. 

 We chose the mass to be 50 kg because the mass does not affect the amount of velocity or speed. This is because when you combine the equation for PE and the equation for KE, the mass in both equations cancels out. So when the mass is 40 kg the speed will always be the same if the mass was 70 kg or 200 kg because the amount of mass does not affect the amount of speed. For example, when the mass of the car was 60 kg the speed at the end of the ride was 8.84 m/s and when the mass of the car was 40 kg the speed at the end of the ride was also 8.84 m/s. However, mass and energy have a direct relationshop because when the mass is increased, the PE, KE, and total energy will all increase as well. To further prove this, when the mass was 40 kg the amount of total energy was 1565 J and when the mass was 60 kg the total energy was 2346 J.

The relationship between KE and PE is that at the top of the initial drop the PE is greater than 0 and the KE equals 0 but at the bottom of the drop the KE is greater than 0 and the PE is 0. Therefore, the PE at the top of the drop will equal the KE at the bottom of the drop because as the car moves down the rollercoaster and is in motion, the PE will change into KE. PE is energy at rest and when the car is moving it is not at rest and KE is energy in motion so when the car moves the PE will change to KE. As the car starts to move, the PE transfers to KE as the car moves down the initial drop and hill so the more PE and KE, the more TE. The PE and the KE switch depending on if the car is in motion (KE) or at rest (PE). When the initial drop height was 2 m, the PE at the top of the hill was 887 J and the KE was 0 J but the KE at the bottom of the hill was 887 J and the PE was 0 J. The relationship between KE, PE, and total energy is that the PE and the KE add up to equal the TE. The TE will always be the same as the PE at the top of the initial drop unless there is friction. 

 The Law of Conservation of Energy tells us that energy is neither created nor destroyed, the same energy just changes into different types of energy like KE, thermal energy, and more. So the PE at the top of the initial drop will equal the total energy because energy can't be created or destroyed. That is the same for the relationship between KE and TE because the TE will equal the KE at the bottom of the drop unless there is friction and the PE turns into another type of energy instead of just KE.