Some recommendations I would make to the Gonzales family is that I would make the drop height 3.5m. This is because I will need the loop and hill to be smaller than the initial drop height because the conservation law of energy states that energy can't be created or destroyed. Also, the greater the initial drop the more PE there is at the top, and that energy will eventually transfer into KE at the bottom. For an example, when the initial drop was 3m, then the PE at the top was 1466J and the KE was 0J which equal 1466TE. Then at the bottom of the drop the PE was 1J and the KE was 1465J which has a TE of 1466J. Also, the higher the initial drop the more speed the car will have. When there was a drop height of 3m, the speed at the bottom was 7.65J, the speed at the top of the hill was 3.09J, and the speed at the end was 7.65J. Then when the drop height was 4m, the speed at the bottom was 8.84J, the speed at the top was 5.39J, and the speed at the end was 8.83J. This also shows that the relationship between PE and KE combined will always equal the total energy because of the law of conservation of energy. Also, it shows that the total energy stays the same throughout the whole ride no matter where the car is on the roller coaster. When the initial drop was 3m, then the total energy at the start was 1466J and at the bottom was also 1466J. This shows that the total energy never changes throughout the ride. At the start of the drop, the PE is greater than the KE but when it is at the end of the drop, the KE was greater than the PE. For example, when the initial drop height was 4m then the PE was 1955J and the KE was 0J. Then at the bottom the PE was 1J and the KE was 1954J. This clearly shows that the PE did not get destroyed but it was transferred into the KE throughout the drop. After the initial drop of 3.5m, I would make the loop height 2.5m and then the hill height 2m. I would do this because you can't have a hill height or loop height that is taller than the initial drop height because of the conservation law of energy. When I did a hill height of 3m an initial drop height of 4m the roller coaster made it over. Then when I did an initial drop height of 4m and the hill also 4m, then the roller coaster wouldn't make it over. The more mass the more PE at the top of the drop and the more KE at the bottom of the drop. When the car mass was 40kg then the PE at the top was 1956J and then the KE was 1954J at the bottom. Then when the car mass was 50kg the PE at the top was 2445J and the KE at the bottom was 2444J. This shows that the more mass the car has the more PE, KE, and total energy it has too. Although mass effects the amount of energy, mass does not effect speed. When I had a car that weighed 40kg the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.27J, the speed at the top of the hill was 5.4J, and the speed at the end was 8.26J. Then, when I changed he mass of the car to 50kg, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.27J, the speed at the top of the hill was 5.4J, and the speed at the end was 8.26J. This data clearly shows that mass does not effect speed. Mass does not effect speed because in the PE and KE formulas, the mass in both formulas cancel each other out and so the velocity or speed, only depends on gravity and height on the other side of the equation. This simulation is obviously done without friction but if there was friction it would effect the amount of PE and KE between the top of the drop and the bottom of the drop. Some of the energy because of friction would be turned into thermal and sound energy.