We have been working hard to create a safe and enjoyable experience for your customers at your theme park.  We have done a lot of testing to ensure we reach these requirements successfully.
What we chose for the height of our initial drop was 3.5 meters. We chose this because it let the guests have the most exciting ride possible without making it dangerous. Our car mass was 50 kg- as we wanted something not too heavy but still sturdy for our riders. 
The height and mass together make more potential energy, which helps the car gain speed when going down the second hill- which has a height of 3.25. 
Adding onto our height-changing levels of energies, the amount of height in our hills will end up changing the potential energy, the kinetic energy, as well as the total energy. 
Our data shows us this. For example, when we did one experiment we chose a hill height of 3- and the speed at the bottom of the hill was 26.1 m/s. When we did another experiment with a changed hill height of 2.4- the speed at the bottom was 20.98 m/s, which is about five m/s less than before. 
The reason our data shows a drop in energy caused by a drop in height is because of the chain reaction height causes. More height gives more opportunity for an object to gain potential energy, which then transfers into kinetic energy- which translates to speed. The two energies (KE and PE) added together make up the TE (total energy.) You may think that the total energy added up is more than both PE as well as KE- but actually, that isn't true. Transferring of energy and the law of conservation of energy can explain the reason that the total energy only equals the amount of potential energy at the initial drop of the roller coaster. Law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, which means that the total energy will not be able to be more than the PE and KE. The law of conservation of energy also explains the transfer of energy. The PE transfers into KE at the point where the car starts to go downhill on a rollercoaster and gains speed. PE is stored energy and at that hill point it's like a release- sending all the stored energy into motion which causes it to change into KE. This transfer leaves PE at 0 and KE at the amount of PE that there was at the beginning of the ride, causing the total energy to amount to the same as the PE was in the beginning. 
The reason we chose to use a mass of 50 was because of how it caused a safe speed that didn't go over the limit that would cause danger. We know that mass can affect PE, KE, and total energy- and here is our evidence to show it. We know that mass affects PE, KE, and total energy because of the equations that all of those energies have. 
Potential energy has an equation that looks like this. PE=m*9.8*v^2 which translates to Potential energy = mass multiplied by the acceleration due to gravity (which is always 9.8) multiplied by velocity squared. As you can see, mass is a variable in that equation. If I had a mass of 50 kg and a velocity of 25 m/s there would be 306,250 J. If the mass was 40 kg and the velocity stayed at 25 m/s the answer would then be 245,000 J
Kinetic energy has mass as a variable in its equation as well. Its simplified equation is KE=1/2m*v^2 which translates to Kinetic energy = 1/2 of mass multiplied by velocity squared. Again, mass is a variable in the equation. If the mass was 50 kg and the velocity was 25 m/s in an object the amount of kinetic energy would be 15,625 J.  But if the mass was 40 kg and the velocity was 25  m/s in an object the kinetic energy would be 12,500 J.
Although mass doesn't affect speed, mass does affect total energy. kinetic energy, as well as potential energy, are in the equation of total energy. Since mass affects both of those- it will end up affecting total energy in the process. Although you may think that the total energy is larger than both the potential energy and the kinetic energy- it is only as big as the amount of potential energy at the initial drop.
Surprisingly, mass doesn't affect speed and I have data to prove the fact that it does not. When the mass of the car was 50, the speed at the bottom of the initial drop was 6.99 m/s - and when the mass of the car was 60, the speed continued to be 6.99 m/s. The reason mass doesn't affect speed is that speed doesn't have an equation that has mass as a variable in it.

