My recommendation for the Gonzales family is to have the drop height at 3.5 meters. This is because when I tested the drop height at a higher height like 4 meters, the PE was 1767 Joules at the top, and KE was 1767 Joules at the bottom. But when I put the drop height at 2 meters the PE was only 883 Joules at the top and the KE was only 883 Joules at the bottom. 3.5 meters would be my best recommendation because more PE makes it faster which will make the ride more fun. Another reason why the PE shouldn't be higher or lower than 3.5 meters is the speed. In order for the ride to be safe the speed should be around 8.4 m/s/s. The higher the initial drop height the higher the speed throughout the ride. I know this because in my data trials when I put the drop height at 4 meters the speed was 8.83 m/s/s but when I put the drop height at 3 meters the speed was 7.64 m/s/s. So if the speed is too high with an initial drop height of 4 meters 3.5 is a good height for the initial drop.
Next I recommend for the hill height to be 3 meters. This is because in order to make it to the end of the ride the hill height needs to be lower than the initial drop. In my data when we put the hill height at 5 and the initial drop height 5 or lower it didn't make it to the end of the ride. This is because the PE at the top transfers into KE and if there isn't enough PE building as it goes up the hill again its not gonna make it. Also the law of conservation of energy says that energy can't be created nor destroyed. Some energy will transfer into useless energy as it goes down the hill so it may have trouble getting through the whole ride. In my model the higher the KE and PE the higher the TE. This is because KE and PE equal TE. So one way to get high TE is to have a car with a large mass. I recommend a 60 kg car because in my simulation the PE was 2933 at the top and the KE was 1924 at the bottom with a 60 kg car. But with the 40 kg car the PE was 1955 and the KE was 1951. Once again we want high total energy so a 60 kg car would be best because there would be more KE and PE which adds up to the total energy when there is no friction. Mass does not affect speed the mass will completely depend on whichever mass gives more PE and KE. All of these guidelines will make for a safe and fun ride because the speed and energy are a safe amount due to the recommendations given.