Dear Gonzales family, my group made a fun but safe roller coaster that I would like to share with you. We first thought  our drop was  going to be 5 meters high until we did some trails and the speed at the bottom of the drop was 9.89 M/S/S. That was too fast to not be safe. Then we chose for our next height to be 3 meters high because  if it was over 8.4 M/S/S it would be to fast. The speed then at the bottom of the drop was 7.66. 7.66 is safe because it is under 8.4 M/S/S. We found out from our trails if we lower our drop height the speed will also be a slower speed.

Now that we got our drop height we need to figure out what our hill height will be. First we tried 3 meters for hill height. The speed of the car did not get over the hill since the drop height was also 3. So we bumped it down to 2 meters high. The total energy from the 3 meter tall hill height was 2438 which is what we want. Know that we got the car to still be safe and fun we need a loop. We decided the loop should be a meter high because if i was 2 meters high the car can not get over the loop. With the loop being 1 meter high, the speed of the car should be under 8.4 M/S/S.

For our car mass we decided 55 KG because mass does not effect speed. how do I know? Because when we did our trails we had our mass be 55 KG, 50 KG, and 45 Kg. With all the trails being 8.1 we know that mass does not effect speed. Another reason why we choose 55 KG so when we are on the top of the hill we will have more PE which transfers to KE at the bottom of the hill. When we go back up the hill we will have enough energy.

now I am going to talk about how my ride is safe but exciting. My ride is safe because  my ride  will stay under 8.4 M/S/S. I know this because when I did the test with 55 KG, drop height was 3. The max speed was 7.66 from the initial height drop. After the drop I have a loop that is 2 meters high which will slow it down but still give it an good ride. Then the finish the ride off and slow it down even more I have a 1 meter tall hill.