I think the best drop height for this roller coaster would be 3.5 meters. The initial drop should be 3.5 meters because that's the highest it can be for the roller coaster to be fun and safe. It should be the highest possible for it to be safe because as the law of conservation of energy states "Energy cannot be created or destroyed." The more the initial drops height the more speed there will be.This means that if we have a initial drop of 3.5 meters, the hill or loop that comes after that has to be less than 3.5 meters due to friction (heat, and sound energy.) When the initial drop was 3.5 meters there was more potential energy at the top of the drop and more kinetic energy at the bottom so that means more total energy. There for, from my data I can say the greater the initial drop height the greater the energy and the greater the speed. 
The best decision for the height of the hill would be 3 meters and here's why. If we made the hill 3 meters people would have the most fun and still a very safe ride. Since the hill has to be shorter than the initial drop height it should be 0.5 meter below 3.5 meters which is 3 meters so it has the most total energy to get through the ride. This means that it will go for the longest and the fastest because it has the most total energy and the most speed. In other words the higher the hill height the higher the total energy and speed. The relationship between the initial drop height and the hill height is that the hill height has to be less than the drop so it can get over the hill. 
I think there should be a loop in this design because it will make it more enjoyable. The loop height should be 2.5 meters because it is 0.5 meters less than the hill height before, which was 3 meters. Once again this loop should be 2.5 meters because it will make it the fastest without being dangerous. Plus it will gain more  speed. 
After the loop, there should be another hill, with a height of 2 meters. This hill will help the ride slow down a little but also get the last little enjoyment before it's done. This hill will be kind of small so there won't be a lot of speed or energy. 
For the end of the ride there should be another hill with a flat area, that has a height of 1.75 meters. Only 0.25 meters less than the previous hill. This flat area will slow down the cart a lot to make it come to a stop. This flat area will make the cart loose speed and kinetic energy.  
The mass of the cart should be the biggest possible again 60 kg because the bigger the mass the greater the total energy. Even though the greater the height the greater the speed that in't the case with speed and mass. The mass of an object never effects the speed. So the greater or less the mass is the speed will be the same. Also for the mass of the cart there will be more total energy which means more kinetic energy and potential energy if the mass is the greatest it can be. Of course this is all in a friction-less scenario but in the real world there will be friction. 
The best option for the Gonzales family would be 3.5 meters for the initial drop, 3 meters for the hill, the loop should be 2.5 meters, the hill height should be 2 meters, the final hill or flat area should be 1.75 meters long, and finally 60 kg for the mass of the cart. This will give their passengers the best most fun experience as well as a safe ride.