Hello Gonzales family,
Me and my team have created the ideal roller coaster for you, that is fun, safe, and is sure to make your amusement park more successful. First, we will have an initial drop that is 3.5 meters high. This is about the max height you can have before going above the speed limit. This will make sure that riders have the most thrill without taking so much G-force that they black out. Next, we will have a hill that is 3 meters high.  Since the initial drop has all the possible potential energy that the entire coaster will ever have, the hill must be lower than the initial drop, so that it can keep going further and make it to the end of the ride. Finally, we will have a loop that is 2.5 meters high. This is because the hills must get lower and lower due to the ride having to keep going up that hill and still have some kinetic energy. This loop must be a little shorter, or 0.5 meters shorter, than the hill before it. Then the coaster will simply end in a strait line long enough for it to fully stop. The mass of my car will be light, because then it will be smaller and have a smaller target for wind to slow it down. I know this because in the mass and speed trial I learned that mass does not affect speed at all. In all 4 attempts, I changed only the mass of the car and nothing else. The speed always stayed the same at the bottom of the hill, at a rate of 9.88 m/s. Height and Mass will affect PE, KE, and TE because mass is in the PE and KE formula, which means it has a direct relationship with them. You might be saying, "But height isn't in the KE formula," but height affects speed and speed is in the KE formula. The relationship between PE, KE, and TE affects my ride because when the PE increases, the KE decreases, and vice versa. When the car is at the very top of the initial drop, it has all of the potential energy the coaster can possibly have. When the car is at the end of the ride, it has all the kinetic energy it can possibly have. Total energy will always stay the same though, because when the PE increases, the KE decreases at the same rate. The law of conservation of energy affects my design decisions because if I had a way to create energy, which is impossible due to the law of conservation of energy, I could have the most fun and thrilling roller coaster anyone could possible have. But since there are all these factors, like Height, speed, mass, ect. , those must be greater or less for there to be any change in energy. Me and my team will not let you down.
From,
Owen