My design for the Gonzales family starts with the initial drop at 3.5 and the hill height at 3. This making sure that the car will be able to fully make it over the hill without stopping because the hill height is bigger than the initial drop. First off the height of the initial drop makes it so that the higher the drop is, the more  potential energy there will be. Also the higher the drop is that will mean that their will be more kinetic energy because the potential energy will transfer over to the kinetic energy. This will also cause more speed because the more kinetic energy there is the faster the car will go. The total energy will also be more if the drop is higher because the total energy will be the same as the potential energy and kinetic energy unless there is friction. The speed will still be in between 6.7 which would be to slow and lame for the riders and 8.4 which would cause injuries for the riders. I also chose the mass of the car to be anywhere from 50 kg - 60 kg. This showing that the mass can be anywhere because the mass doesn't affect the speed. In my data when I had my drop height at 3.5 and hill height at 3 the mass didn't effect it. When the mass was at 40 kg the speed was 8.27 at the bottom of the drop and 3.10 at the top of the hill. But when I put the mass to 60 kg the speed was the exact same for both 40 kg and 60 kg. So the mass of the car does not effect the speed at all. But the mass does effect the potential energy and kinetic energy. In my data it shows that when the car mass was at 40 kg the potential energy, kinetic energy and total energy was at 1953. But when the car mass was at 60 kg the potential energy, kinetic energy and total energy was at 2930. This showing that the more mass in the car will make it so that there is more potential energy built up and will be more to transfer over when the car starts moving to the kinetic energy. The relationship between potential energy and kinetic energy is pretty much the same because it will just be transferred from one energy to the other. At the start of the drop the energy potential energy will be at 1930 and the kinetic energy will be at 0 but when the car starts to move down the coaster the potential energy will transfer to the kinetic energy. Unless there is friction which means that some of the energy will go to the thermal energy. The total energy depends on the potential energy and kinetic energy because the Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy can't be created or destroyed. This showing that the total energy depends on the potential and kinetic energy. Lastly the Law of Conservation of Energy affects my design because it means that energy can't be created or destroyed. So that means that there will always be either the same potential and kinetic energy or there will be more potential energy than kinetic energy if there is friction. So I think that the initial drop height should be 3.5, hill height should be 3 and the mass of the car should be in between 50 kg - 60 kg. 