My final design will have 2 hills and 2 loops. I would like my initial drop to be 3.6 so it has a safe and fun speed. I chose this because the energy would be high, and so will the speed. To show this, when my initial drop was 4m, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.84m/s, and when the initial drop was 4.5m, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 9.28m/s. 

To add on, I would also like my car mass to be 50kg. I chose this because of the amount of energy it had. For example, when my car mass was 40kg, the total energy was 1566J. When the car mass was 50kg, the total energy was 1958J. Because of the law of conservation of energy, energy cannot be created or destroyed, making the total energy stay the same throughout the whole ride. But, mass does not affect speed, because the mathematical equation shows that when trying to calculate speed, mass is on both sides, so it cancels out, making mass not part of the equation. 

But speed is affected by height. This happens because the higher the height, the more energy there is, which means there is more speed. And again, because of the law of conservation of energy, the total amount of energy has to stay the same.

 My hill height will be 3m. I chose this because the higher the hill, the more energy there is. For example, when my hill height was 3m, the total energy was 2446. When my hill height was 4, the total energy was 2248. But if your hill height is the same as your initial drop, it won't make it over the hill, which is why I have to keep the hill height lower than the drop height. This also goes along with the loop in my ride, the higher the loop, the more energy. 

Next, to prove that the total energy stays the same, there has to be a relationship between PE and KE. PE is based on height, so the more height, the more PE. Which then eventually turns into KE. KE is based on motion. So when the height drops and speed pick up, all that PE is going to turn into KE at the end of the ride. But on the top of the hill and loop, the KE and PE will almost be 50/50 because there is height and also speed. To prove this, when my PE was 1995J and KE was 0J, the total energy stayed the same. Also when my KE at the bottom was 1995J, the total energy was also 1995J,  proving total energy stays the same.
