To make my roller coaster fun and safe, I want the height to be 3.5 meters tall. While the roller coaster travels throughout the ride, the fastest it can go without killing its passengers is 8.4 m/s. Having the height at 3.5 meters tall is what will make it go the fastest while still ensuring safety for the riders. Height and potential energy have a direct relationship. When the height is increased, the potential energy is increased. When the height is decreased, the potential energy is decreased. This is because when you are calculating the potential energy, you use the equation mass times gravity times height. When you increase the height in the equation, you increase the potential energy. When you decrease the height in the equation, you decrease the potential energy. The mass of the car is going to be 60 kg. This is because mass and potential energy have a direct relationship. The greater the mass, the greater the potential energy. Having more potential energy at the beginning of the ride will determine how much energy the roller coaster can use for the remainder of the ride. This is because of the law of conservation of energy. The law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. This means that while the roller coaster car begins to travel down the roller coaster, it only has the amount of potential energy it had at the beginning of the ride to make it to the end. There are no machines or pulleys that can make the roller coaster gain more energy, and since the law states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, there is only so much energy we can use. The amount of energy we can use is total energy. For the second hill in my roller coaster, I want the height to be 2.5 meters tall. As the law of conservation of energy said, matter cannot be created or destroyed. The second hill cannot be greater than the initial drop because it would need excess force to get over the second hill. Since my roller coaster will not have this, the second drop cannot be greater than the first. I also chose this because I wanted the second hill to be large, but not too large that the roller coaster wouldn't make it over the next hill. After the second hill, I added a loop in the ride that will be 2.5 meters tall. I chose this because the loop cannot be greater than the initial drop according to the law of conservation of mass. I also wanted a loop near the end of the ride to make it more fun and exciting. 
I chose the height to be 3.5 meters because when I tested the roller coaster's height, the data showed that when the height was increased, the potential energy increased. For example, in a simulation, when I adjusted the height to be 5 meters tall, the speed at the bottom of the hill was 9.88 m/s. As I now know, that is too dangerous and too fast for riders. When I decreased the height to 3.5 meters, the speed at the bottom of the hill was 8.27 m/s. As the data shows, the speed decreases as the height decreases. This is because speed and height have a direct relationship. When you increase the height, the speed increases. When you decrease the height, the speed decreases. I knew that for the rest of my roller coaster, the height of each hill or loop would have to be less than the height of the initial drop to allow the roller coaster a smooth ride without stopping halfway through. For the mass of the roller coaster, I chose 60 kg. Although increasing the mass increases the potential energy, it does not increase the speed of the car. According to my data from another simulation, when the car weight was set at 60 kg, the speed at the bottom of the hill was 8.27 m/s. When the mass of the car was set at 50 kg, the speed at the bottom of the hill was also 8.27 m/s. This proves that the speed is not affected by the mass, therefore showing that the two don't have a relationship.
The total energy throughout the ride does not change. In a frictionless simulation, there are two types of energy; potential energy and kinetic energy. The energy is not created or destroyed like the law of conservation of energy states. The energy is just transferred between different types of energy. For example, at the top of the hill, the potential energy will have all of the total energy because the car is at rest and at the top of the hill. When the car reaches the bottom of the hill, there won't be any potential energy. The kinetic energy will have all of the energy. The total energy will always stay the same throughout the ride, no matter where you are on the roller coaster. Once you've used up all the total energy, there is no other way to keep moving. If the roller coaster doesn't have enough energy at the top of the roller coaster, it will not finish and leave the passengers stranded on the ride. That is why I have chosen the height to be as tall as possible while being safe and the mass as great as possible. This way there will be more total energy to use throughout the whole ride. Potential energy, kinetic energy, and total energy all add up to each other. The potential or kinetic energy will never be greater than the total energy. To make sure my ride is safe and fun, I am making the initial drop at 3.5 meters, the second hill at 2.5 meters, and the loop at 2.5 meters. 
The relationship between the initial drop and the hill height is talked about with the law of conservation of mass. Since energy cannot be created or destroyed, the hill height cannot be greater than the initial drop. This is because all the potential energy at the top of the hill is all of the energy that can be used for the remainder of the ride. If the hill height is greater or taller than the initial drop, the roller coaster won't make it over the second hill, making the ride unsafe. The drop height and speed have a direct relationship. As the height increases, the speed increases. As the height decreases, the speed of the roller coaster decreases. Mass and speed do not have a relationship. Mass and speed do not affect each other. The greater the mass is, the less speed does not change. They don't impact each other, so when the mass increases, the speed stays the same. When the mass decreases, the speed stays the same. This is because of the forces that are acting on an object. If there is no friction acting on something, it will fall at the same speed. This is why they don't have a relationship. 