Dear Gonzales family, after running many trials with diverse variables, we have some suggestions to make the best roller coaster design. First, the height of the initial drop should be 3.5 meters because the speed needs to be high enough so its fun, but not too fast. In trial 2 the initial drop height was 3 meters and the car did not go fast enough, but in trial 3 the initial drop height was 4 meters. This time it went too fast. The hill height needs to be a little shorter than the initial drop.  If the hill is more than or equal to the height of the initial drop the roller coaster will not make it over the hill. This is because the roller coaster needs to have more total energy at the top of the hill than what it started with, which is not possible. In one trial the height of the hill was .01 meter greater than the initial drop, and the car did not have enough energy to make it over the hill. The mass of your car can be whatever you want it to be. The mass does not affect any variables of the ride. In all our our mass trials, the variables never changed, our data was always the same. 

The height of the car will determine how much PE and KE there are. The higher an object is, the more potential energy it will have, along with the more kinetic energy it will have at the bottom. Therefore, the more total energy it will have. Also, the more height there is the more speed the car will have. This is because the car needs to reach the ground quicker when it is higher up. The amount of PE at the top of the initial drop is transferred to the amount of KE at the end of the drop. The more energy you have in the ride, the better. Total energy is always PE added to KE. The amount of total energy never changes unless there is friction occurring. In this case energy is not being lost. As stated in the Law of Conservation of energy, "energy cannot be destroyed or created.". This energy that appears to be becoming lost is being transferred into the thermal of mechanical energy. Energy can never be created or destroyed.