Dear Gonzales family, 
 We understood from the response to our last email you were mostly satisfied with our progress report. However, we saw you didn't understand every concept our workers tried to prove they knew. So now we will be proposing our current roller coaster track and will be backing up all of our decisions with facts. For starters, at the beginning of the ride, the initial drop now is 3.50 meters in the air instead of the previous 2.5 meters. The data found in our experiments suggests the speed of a cart released at 2.5 meters in the air only brings constant speeds below 4/m/s. In case you were unaware of why that has relevance or importance. The average roller coaster can only have an m/s speed in-between 6.7m/s -8.4 m/s because anything below 6.7 is considered boring and dull while anything above 8.4 can be fatal. Our simulations did find that a 3.50-meter drop height is the closest way to get an appropriate m/s rate of 8.27, throughout rides which is between 6.7 and 8.4. consistently. The height of the drop is one of the most important factors leading to these results. Height is a part of the cycle roller coasters go through using the law of conservation energy along with the other variables. TE, PE, KE. As a reminder, the Law of Conservation energy states energy cannot be created or destroyed. The higher a cart is placed in the sky the longer duration gravity can affect the cart. When the cart gets pulled down for a longer time the cart gets more built-up PE. The law of Conservation energy is extremely important to the design because it will determine whether many aspects of the ride need to be changed such as the height of the drop and the length of the flat track. The PE will all transfer to KE. KE then will apply more force on the cart causing it to move faster so the cart gains more speed, a higher net force, and velocity. We also know TE is the sum of KE and PE from the entire ride regardless of whether the PE transferred into KE or the KE transfers into sound or thermal energy it will still be counted. So from that, we know TE is dependent on the two factors PE and KE. Which in themselves are dependent factors of height and mass. So with that all out the way we have to apply this to the rules of roller coaster designing.  Mass is also very important in roller coaster design in its relationships with PE, KE, TE, and speed. Mass allows for a cart to have a longer duration with gravity because objects with more mass are bigger and therefore harder for gravity to pull because the cart has more weight to be pulled. As we went over mass and height translates into PE which transfers into KE which are both summed up into TE at the end of the ride completing the cycle. Now that we've gotten over the main science it's time to use the data to confirm the rest of the track is safe. the track transitions to a hill then a loop and a flat surface to boot. Let's focus on the hill it managed a speed of 6.5 at the top and 7.50 at the bottom. The hill was lower than the drop allowing the car to fully climb up the hill proving its safety. The loop was 2.50 meters in the air, and the loop also had a speed of 8.00 m/s and was lower than the hill allowing the cart to pass the loop fully. Which gets the cart to pass as safe. the flat track is also the same reaching 7.00 m/s is 1.0 meters lower than the loop, the cart and go all the way through meaning every inch of our track is safe and thrilling. I hope you pay us well for our endeavors.
Thank you for this partnership and opportunity, Gonzales.