After going through many experiments, I have found what the best roller coaster can be to keep customers safe well having a enjoyable time.

The first, and most important part of the rolller coaster im going to start off with is the inital drop. The drop will be 3.5 meters because with just the height will be the highest you can go to keep you safe. The height relates to the PE because it starts off just having PE because the car is at rest, with the hight being 3.5. This also gives lots of PE to start off with to get the ride going. As soon as you start to go down the hill, the KE´s numbers will start to increase and and the PE decreases until it gets to zero at the bottom. 

The first hill is going to be 2.5 meters, that way your gaining enough PE to make you up the hill. If you had your height higher than the inital drop you would not be able to make it up the hill. With the height right now, you will still go up rapidly fast and gain PE to make the KE be fast going down the hill. The next part is when total energy starts to play a role, once you reach the top of the hill, your at the most the PE is going to be for the hill. When your transforming into KE going down the hill is where it becomes total energy. Total energy is be created or destroyed so, when going down the hill, the PE gets destroyed and gets created into KE.

Lastly is the mass of the cart. I will  have the mass as 50 kg because the more mass you have the faster you will accelorate forward throughout the ride well being safe. I wanted the mass to be heavy but, to still leave room for the mass to not be at the maximum so it can make it over the hills and not get anyone hurt. With the mass being heavy the inital drop will go faster down the hill it will acelorate up the hill and go rapidlly fast down the hill ending with a fast finsh to end the roller coaster. The thermal energy is a result for every piece of the roller coaster overall. Thermal energy comes from the result of the heat against the cart and tracks, but that can also relate to the mass pushing against the tracks, and how fast you are going from the hills and drops.

Thankyou for your time to read through my idea of the perfect roller coaster would be.