I would recomend for the initial drop to be 3.5 meters because the higher the roller coaster is, the more potential energy it has. With 3.5 meters the roller coaster car would have enough potential and kinetic energy to make it through the ride, while still maintaining a safe speed. Based on my data, when the initial drop is at 3.5 meters, the speed will be 8.27 m/s. 8.27 m/s is in between the target speeds of 6.7 - 8.4 m/s.

Height and potential energy have a direct relationship in that when height is increased, so is the potential energy. This is because potential energy is based on an object's relative location to the ground. Therefore, if the object's location is further from the ground, the more potential energy it will have. Height is in the equation to determine potential energy so when that increases, mathematically, the potential energy will as well. I know this because in my data, when the initial drop was at 2 meters, the potential energy was at 977 joules. Although, when the height was at 5 meters, the potential energy was at 2443 joules. Height also has a direct relationship with kinetic energy because of it's relationship with potential energy. Potential energy transfers into kinetic energy, so the higher the potential energy the higher the kinetic energy has to be. Height therefore also affects total energy as well in the way that when height increases, total energy has to increase as well because potential energy did. Height also affects speed because velocity is part of the equation for kinetic energy, and the kinetic energy has to equal the potential energy. If the height increases in the equation for potential energy, making the potential energy higher, the equation for kinetic energy has to match the increase in potential energy. Because velocity squared times mass is kinetic energy, the increased kinetic energy will have to be because of the velocity.

I would recommend that the mass of the roller coaster car be 50 kg, although mass does not affect the speed. I know that mass does not affect the speed because when the mass of the car was at 40 and 60 kg, the speed stayed the same at 7.65 (with a drop height of 3 meters).

Mass affects potential and kinetic energy in that mass determins the energies. Mass is part of the equation for both potential and kinetic energy so if it increases so do they. However, because mass is in both equations it does not affect speed. Mass does not affect speed because even though it increases the energies in the equations, the increased energies cancels out when the object uses the energy. Speed is based on the gravitational pull of the object based on height, not mass. Even if the mass changes, the speed will not change.

Potential energy and kinetic energy make up total energy. Total energy is potential and kinetic energy added up at a certain point in a ride. Not the greatest amounts of each because the energy transfers from potential to kinetic energy based on the speed and height of the object. If you took the potential and kinetic energy at a certain point in the ride, they would add up to total energy. I know this because the Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy can not be created nor destroyed. This means that the total energy will stay the same throughout the ride, and the potential and kinetic energy can not go above the total energy. 

The Law of Conservation of Energy affects the design because it means the roller coaster car needs to have enough potential energy to make it to the end of the ride. Because potential energy transfers into kinetic energy, the amount of kinetic enery will be the same as potential energy at the beginning of the ride. This means that there will need to be a higher initial drop so there will be enough energy to make it through the ride.

I also recommend to the Gonzales Family that the hill and loop in the roller coaster be lower than the initial drop. I recommend this because the Law of Conservation of Energy says no energy will be created to make the roller coaster car make it through the ride. Therefore, I recomend that the heights be lower than the initial drop so that there will be enough potential and kinetic energy for the roller coaster car to make it through the ride.