Dear Gonzales family, 
I think that the best drop height for the roller coaster should be 3.5 meters and the hill height be 2.5 meters. This height keeps us under the speed of 8.4 meters per second because my data shows that when the initial drop  height is 3.5 meters then the speed at the bottom of the drop is 8.25 meters per second. The drop height does increase the amount of potential energy because the equation for potential energy is mass times acceleration due to gravity times height. So, if you increase the height, the potential energy will increase. This is backed up in my data where when the initial drop height was 5 meters I had 2,928 joules of potential energy and when the drop height was only 4 meters, I had 2,342 joules of potential energy. 
Initial drop height also affects kinetic in the same way. My data shows that the Ke at the bottom of the 5 meter drop I had 2,928 joules of kinetic energy and when the drop was 4 meters it was 2,342 joules of kinetic energy. Total energy is the sum of the kinetic and potential energy, so if height affects kinetic and potential then it will affect total. The height also affects speed because if you just change the height then the speed will change the higher the faster. 

Mass does affect the amount of potential energy and the amount of kinetic energy. This is backed up in my data where when the mass of my car was 50kgs, I had 1,955 joules of potential energy and when the car was 60kgs, I had 2,346 joules of potential energy. It also affects the total energy because total energy is just the sum of potential and kinetic energy so if mass affects potential and kinetic energy then it also affect total. Mass has no effect on speed because in my data where the mass of the car is 60kg, the speed at the bottom of the drop is 8.27 meters per second. But when the mass of the car is 56 kgs, the speed at the bottom of the drop is still 8.27 meters per second.

The relationship between potential energy and kinetic energy is simple. The law of conservation of mass states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, it can only be converted into a different type of energy. As the car goes down the drop, the amount of potential energy goes down. But it is not lost, it is just being converted into kinetic energy. However the amount of total energy does not change because it is the sum of the potential and kinetic energy. 

The law of conservation of energy affects our design because since we cannot create energy, our drops cannot be shorter than the hill or else the car will not make it over. In my data, any time that the hill height was greater or equal to the initial drop height, the car did not finish the drop. 