The height of the initial drop has to depend on the speed and mass of the car because then the Gonzales family can have a safe and fun ride. If the initial drop height is too much it can be unsafe for the riders. I think the mass of the car should be  3.5 because then it is going fast but not fast enough to make it unsafe.

Height effects total energy because if the height is taller that means the total energy is taller to because if the height is taller the car goes faster and if the car goes faster then the total energy will go up. 
Height also effects PE and KE because if there is more height then there is more Potential energy that means that there is more Kinetic energy to.

Mass also effects PE and KE because if there is more mass then the car will go faster because the heaver things are the faster the tend to go. And if the car goes faster then the PE with rise and if the PE rises, so will the KE.

The relationship between PE and KE is direct because they directly effect each other because they transfer energy. As the car is going down the hill the PE will transfer into KE so there will be some KE and mostly PE. As the car gets closer to the bottom of the hill the more Kinetic energy the car will have.

The law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. So as the car is going down the track it is creating energy, but when it slows down the energy cannot be destroyed so it has to go somewhere, so it converts into Kinetic energy. It gets stored up and that goes into total energy.

If the Gonzales family makes the first hill or first loop taller than the initial drop then the roller coaster will roll back down the hill or loop and it will not make it over. If the hill or loop is smaller though, then it will make it over the hill or loop. 

The height effects the PE because if the initial drop is higher then that means that there is more PE. Because whenever the initial drop goes up in height the PE does to. 

The total energy is determined by KE and PE when they are at their maximum energy. So when the potential energy is at its fullest and when the kinetic energy is at its fullest that is total energy. So when the initial drop is 5 the PE will be its fullest when the car is at the top of the initial drop its at its fullest PE. When the car is at the complete bottom of the drop that is the fullest KE. 

The  if you make the first hill or first loop taller than the initial drop then the roller coaster will roll back down the hill or loop and it will not make it over. If the hill or loop is smaller though, then it will make it over the hill or loop. 

The  if you make the first hill or first loop taller than the initial drop then the roller coaster will roll back down the hill or loop and it will not make it over. If the hill or loop is smaller though, then it will make it over the hill or loop. 

The initial drop height effects the speed of the car because when drop height is really tall that can make the car really fast and that is dangerous for the riders. So the Gonzales family has to make the initial drop height the right size so the riders don't go to fast and make it dangerous. 

The mass of the car also effects speed because the heavier the car is the faster its going to get. And if the mass of the car and the initial drop height are to heavy and to tall the car could go way to fast and that is dangerous for the riders. So they need to balance the mass of the car out with the initial drop height so the car goes the right speed.