Dear Mr. Gonzales,
    I've come to what I think is the best roller coaster I can make through weeks of scientific trials. Here is what I've settled on:
    The initial drop height of the coaster should be 4.25 meters off the ground. Doing such will set a speed that makes the ride fun but stays under 8.4 m/s. The highest speed of the entire ride is 8.33 m/s. As you can see from my data, when the initial drop is 5 meters tall, the speed at the bottom of the drop is 9.88 m. Too fast.  When the initial drop height is 3 m, the speed at the bottom of the drop is 7.66 m. So I went somewhere in the middle, to get a pretty fast but safe speed.
    Next, the hill height should be 3 m tall. Any taller and the car won't be able to make it over the hill, but this height will still be plenty high up. The reason it won't make it over is because the hill height must be less than the initial drop, or there won't be enough energy to get over. The Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, so making the hill taller means it needs more energy we don't have.
    The loop height should be 2 meters. Like the same case with the hill, it can't be too tall or there won't be enough energy to get the care over the hill. Height is part of the equation for PE, and more PE means more KE, which means more total energy. The energy doesn't disappear or add to itself, it just transfers between PE and KE.
    The car itself should probably weigh about 52 kg. You can still fit several people, and it's a reasonable size. It doesn't really matter how heavy the car is because the mass doesn't actually affect the speed. In my trials, when the car weighs 40 kg the speed at the bottom of the hill is 9.84 m/s. When the car weighs 54 kg, the speed is still 9.84.
    The friction of the coaster should be .05, as to slow down the car enough to not go over 8.4 m/s but still make it fast.
    Thank you for your time, Mr. Gonzales, and I recommend you take my thoughts into consideration. Good luck with building.