Dear Gonzales family,
Through all of my trials and tests I have come up with the optimal roller coaster. With one hill and one loop. The initial height and length will be 3 meters, hill height of 2.30 m with a length of 4.25 meters. The loop should have a height of 2.50 m and a length of 3 meters. In the order of initial drop, hill and then finally loop with a flat part at the end of the ride. I choose an initial drop height of 3 because it would give enough potential energy to fuel the rest of the ride. When the height is 3 meters there is 1467 Joules of potential energy at the top of the initial drop and 1467 Joules of kinetic energy at the bottom. This is because of the law of Conservation of energy that states no energy can be created or destroyed. Just transfer between each other because of this law then the total energy which is 1467 Joules in this case stays the same throughout the ride. At the top of the hill the cart has 1164 joules of potential energy and 303 Joules of kinetic energy. The 303 joules of energy at the top is because the the total 1467 Joules of energy is not fully transfer from kinetic to potential. At the bottom of the hill and at the start of the loop the amount of kinetic energy is 1464 joules with just 3 joules of potential energy stored. When the cart is upside down inside the loop it has 1225 Joules stored up due to its position and 242 joules of kinetic energy because of the motion it is in. At the end of the ride it will have come back to the original amount of stored energy 1467 Joules and 0 joules of kinetic energy because of the lack of motion. The hill height needs to be 2.30 because it needs to be less than the initial drop, low enough that we don't go faster than 8.4 m/s and have enough potential energy stored to move into motion. The potential energy at the top of the hill is 1128 joules with kinetic energy of 339 this is enough potential energy to go down the hill and make it to the end of the roller coaster. The loop height needs to be smaller than the initial drop height if not it will stop upside down and go back instead of going forward. Overall the higher the height the higher the PE and KE and the total energy being the sum of both anything that affect them affects it as well. Height however does not affect the speed in anyway. The higher the mass the greater the PE and the KE. The total energy is the sum of the kinetic and potential energy in the closed system with no friction. The energy transfers from potential energy when it is not moving to kinetic when it is moving. The law of conservation of energy affects the design in a large way it tells use a clear and concise way of how energy can not be made or destroyed and how it transfers from one form of energy to another. energy is what moves are roller-coaster if we do not understand it we will not succeed thanks to that law we do.
That is all the info you need thanks.