Dear Gonzales family,
Through all of my trials and tests I have come up with the optimal roller coaster. With one hill and one loop. The initial height and length will be 3 meters, hill height of 2.30 m with a length of 4.25 meters. The loop should have a height of 2.50 m and a length of 3 meters. In the order of initial drop, hill and then finally loop with a flat part at the end of the ride. I chose an initial drop height of 3 because it would give enough potential energy to fuel the rest of the ride. When the height is 3 meters there are 1467 Joules of potential energy at the top of the initial drop and 1467 Joules of kinetic energy at the bottom. This is because of the law of Conservation of energy that states no energy can be created or destroyed. Just transfer between each other because of this law then the total energy which is 1467 Joules in this case stays the same throughout the ride. At the top of the hill the cart has 1164 joules of potential energy and 303 Joules of kinetic energy. The 303 joules of kinetic energy at the top is because the total 1467 Joules of energy is not fully transferred from kinetic to potential. At the bottom of the hill and at the start of the loop the amount of kinetic energy is 1464 joules with just 3 joules of potential energy. When the cart is upside down inside the loop it has 1225 Joules stored up due to its position which is potential energy and 242 joules of kinetic energy because of the motion it is in. At the end of the ride it will have come back to the original amount of stored energy 1467 Joules of Potential energy and 0 joules of kinetic energy because of the lack of motion. The hill height needs to be 2.30 meters because it needs to be less than the initial drop height. The higher the height of the hill the less likely it is to go over the hill. When the hill height is equal to the initial drop it did not make it over in the experiments I ran. But low enough that we don't go faster than 8.4 m/s and have enough potential energy stored to transfer to kinetic energy and start moving. The potential energy at the top of the hill is 1128 joules with kinetic energy of 339 this is enough potential energy to go down the hill and make it to the end of the roller coaster. The loop height needs to be smaller than the initial drop height if not it will stop upside down and go back instead of going forward. Overall the higher the height the higher the PE and KE. When height increases the final velocity/speed of the cart increases as well. When you compare the speed at the bottom of the drop when the height was 2.71 vs. 5.00 you can see a clear difference. When the height was 2.71 the speed at the bottom of the drop was 7.29 m/s but when the height was 5.00 the speed was 9.88 m/s. We can see by the 2.59 difference in speed that the higher the height the higher the speed of the cart. The total energy is the sum of the kinetic and potential energy in the closed system with no friction. The total energy being the sum of both types of energy, anything that affects them affects it as well. The higher the mass of the cart the greater the PE and the KE. The Mass of the car does not affect the speed at which it is going at all. We can see that by comparing the speed with two different masses. When the mass of the car is 46 kg the speed at Bottom of Drop is 8.27 m/s, the Speed at Top of Hill was 4.39 m/s and the Speed at End of Ride was 8.26. When the mass of the car is 69 kg the speed at the Bottom of Drop is 8.27 m/s, the Speed at Top of Hill was 4.39 m/s and the Speed at End of Ride was 8.26. We can see a difference of 0 there is absolutely no difference in the speed at any point in the ride. The law of conservation of energy affects the design in a large way. It tells us a clear and concise way of how energy can not be made or destroyed and how it transfers from one form of energy to another. Energy is what moves a roller-coaster. If we do not understand it we will not succeed thanks to that law we do.
That is all the info you need thanks.