Good afternoon Gonzales Family! My team of researchers and I found what we think is the best possible rollercoaster for your parks business. We ended up making the initial drop height 3 meters high. We believe that this is the best height possible because it makes your ride fast and enjoyable while being safe. Our data shows that as we increased the initial drop height, the speed increases at the bottom of the drop. When we tested with an initial drop height of 5 meters, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 9.89 m/s. Which overall is too fast. We decreased the drop height to 4 meters and ended up getting a speed of 8.84 m/s which again is too fast. Same thing with energy. As we increased the height during our trials to collect data on the amount of energy, the energy increased as we increased the drop height. This data proves that height, energy, and speed are directly related. For the height of our hill, we concluded that 2 meters are the best height for the hill. We made that statement because the car needs to be able to have enough kinetic energy to get through the whole track. But whenever the initial drop height and hill height were the same or the hill height was greater than the initial drop height, the car didn't make it through the entire track. Which obviously doesn't work for the track. For the mass of the car. We decided that 60 kilograms is the best mass. The reasoning behind this is that we wanted the car to have enough momentum to make it through the track better. While running tests, we realized that the mass doesn't affect the cart's speed. When we tested 40 and 60 kilograms, they both ended up with a speed of 9.38 at the bottom of the drop. (This is before we decide to make the hill height 3 meters. We tested on 5 meters in this trial) The height and mass will affect my potential energy but won't fully affect my kinetic energy. It makes the amount of total energy increase. So it is safe to say that height, mass, and total energy are directly related. The law of conservation of energy states that "energy is not created or destroyed". So as the cart goes down the ride, the energy will be passed back and forth between potential and kinetic energy. Eventually, the energy goes into mechanical energy (Sound, Heat, forms of energy we can't notice) This is my proposal to you Gonzales'. I hope you will use the information in this letter extremely to your advantage.