From our experimentation of the correlation between speed and height, we have found that the ideal hill height is 3.5 meters, as this is the greatest possible height that will not lead to a speed of greater than 8.4 meters per second. The mass of the car does not affect the ride greatly, as speed did not change no matter what mass was selected. However, for maximum passenger capacity, the car should still be as large as possible. Unless friction is a concern, mass is mostly irrelevant.
The greater the height of the initial drop, the greater potential energy and total energy will be, because of the formula PE=mgh. While height does not directly affect kinetic energy, a greater level of potential energy at the top will lead to an equally larger amount of kinetic energy at the bottom of the drop. With greater kinetic energy also comes greater speed, so a greater height has a positive effect on all of these aspects of the ride.
Mass is a part of both the formulas of PE and KE, PE=mgh and KE=1/2mv^2 respectively. This means that potential energy, kinetic energy, and total energy will all increase with mass. However, while more energy may be available to move the car if it is more massive, it will also take an equivalently larger amount of energy to move the greater mass. No matter what mass an object is, the speed they reach on a drop of the same height is always the same. 
The total energy of a system is the sum of the potential and kinetic energies. When there is no kinetic energy, such as at the top of a drop, total energy is equivalent to potential energy. When there is no potential energy, such as at the bottom of a drop, total energy is equivalent to kinetic energy. As an object descends, it loses potential energy as it loses height. However, its velocity will increase, increasing kinetic energy by the same amount as the potential energy it lost. 
Due to the Law of Conservation of Energy, the total energy in this system is the amount of energy we begin with. This is defined by the initial drop height. This means, that if we do not insert more energy into the system, the car cannot ascend a hill that has a height greater than the initial drop. All hills and loops, therefore, must be of a lesser height than the initial drop.