Dear Gonzalez Family, 

After running multiple simulations and considering all the factors for your new ride. We have a couple of suggestions. First off, the amount of Potential Energy at the top of the initial drop will be equal to the amount of kinetic, or moving energy at the bottom of the initial drop. The energy can't go anywhere besides transforming from Kinetic to Potential or Potential to Kinetic. The energy can also form into heat energy due to friction, the material of the track will be a very large factor in how much friction occurs. The more friction that the ride has means the more the ride will slow down. As the car moves down the initial drop, the amount of potential energy decreases, and the amount of kinetic energy increases. There is more potential energy at the top of the initial drop if the initial drop is higher. Therefore causing more kinetic energy as the coaster goes down the initial drop. There is no energy lost as stated by Newton's Law of Conservation of Energy, this law states that no energy can be created or destroyed, the amount of total energy, whether that's friction, potential, or kinetic will stay the same the entire ride. The ride cannot lose energy or gain energy without boosters which you have explained to us you would like to avoid. The initial drop height must be more than the hill height on your ride. Our simulations have proved this, the hill height can be almost as tall as the hill height. However, if the hill is the same height as the initial drop, the coaster will sway back and forth until all of its energy is lost due to friction. We have not yet been able to key in on exact percentages of what the hill height can be compared to the drop height. Finally, the mass of the car plays a role in the speed of the ride as potential energy is directly correlated to mass. The way we find the amount of potential energy that an object has is by multiplying the mass of an object by the gravity acting on the object; on Earth, it is 9.8 m/s. And the final thing that you multiply that by is how high that object is in meters. If one of these variables goes up, the product, otherwise known as the potential energy, will go up. We would also recommend that you do the smallest loop possible. Our testing has concluded that this is the best way to have a loop at a good speed and have it so that the cart makes it to the end of the ride. We have come to all of these discoveries as we are doing our research and we will keep researching your ride until it is ready to be built.

Kind Regards, 
Your Science Team