To start off with his design, I chose the initial drop height of 3.5 meters. The safest speed for this ride is 8.4m/s and my design runs at a total of 8.2m/s but it is not consistent. 

When I was testing the hill height, I found that the hill must be shorter than the initial drop height for it to make it to the end. The initial drop's height must be the highest point of potential energy and if the hill is higher than the initial drop, it would need more PE to make it over. So in conclusion, I chose the hill height of 2.5 meters. 
When choosing my initial drop height, it had to be higher than my hill but maintain a good speed for it to be a good experience for the riders. To make sure and stay under the maximum speed, I chose 3.5 meters. When I was testing the drop height and speed, I tested 4m and the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.84m/s which was too high. Then, I tested 3.25m which came out to 7.95m/s. The speed at the top of both hills was below 5. So, I chose the initial drop of 3.5 to ensure safety for the riders and a fun time. 
When I was looking for the right mass, I chose 50 kg. When I was testing the drop height & speed I used a 50kg car and when I changed the size of the initial drop it changed. But, when I was analyzing mass and speed, I found that mass did not affect speed and no matter what mass I changed it to, the m/s would stay the same. For example, while testing the mass of 40kg the speed was 8.27 at the bottom of the drop and 4.42 at the top of the hill. Then, I increased my mass to 60kg and it ended up being the same amount for both. In simple terms, when the height is in a fixed position, the speed will not change no matter the mass.

Height and mass are big factors in changing the PE, KE, and total energy throughout the ride. When I was testing the initial drop, I found that the higher the initial drop is, the more potential energy is stored. The highest point of your potential energy on the coaster should be at the top of the first drop. During the Sim, I tested the heights of 3m and 5m. The PE at the top of a 3m drop is 1466J and at the bottom is 1465 or the same as the initial drop which would also be the peak of your kinetic energy without friction. When I raised it up to 5m, the PE was 2443J, and the same for the KE at the bottom. The total energy is PE + KE, and how much energy total that the coaster exerts. While potential energy and kinetic energy move back and forth and convert back to one another and to different types of energies, the total energy will always stay the same/constant.
The more kinetic or potential energy the ride has, the more total energy there is and the energies convert to other ones such as thermal and mechanical. There also is friction. This affects the coaster such as slowing to down or creating heat against the bottom of the cart. The more mass, the more friction.
The Law of Conservation of Energy states "the amount of energy is neither created nor destroyed." This refers to the fact that energy cannot be destroyed but only converted in different ways. When there is a fixed amount of energy, no more could be created than what it's original place was. If you change a structure, its energy will be different how it relates to the coaster is



The first factor that is important is mass. Mass and height are both independent or controlled variables. While height does affect speed, mass doesn't. It's resistance to acceleration does not change and the gravitational pull doesn't change either, so it remains constant and does not change it directly. Height affects the speed because as you raise the height, the car gains more potential energy which exerts more kinetic energy. The more mass a car has, the more PE and KE there is. This adds up to the total energy. How I know this is 