Dear Gonzales family, 
 We understood from the response to our last email you were mostly satisfied with our progress report. However, we saw you didn't understand every concept our workers tried to prove they knew. So now we will be proposing our current roller coaster track and will be backing up all of our decisions with facts. For starters, at the beginning of the ride, the initial drop now is 3.50 meters in the air instead of the previous 2.5 meters. The data found in our experiments suggests the speed of a cart released at 2.5 meters in the air only brings constant speeds below 4/m/s. In case you were unaware of why that has relevance or importance. Height is part of the cycle of the law of conservation energy along with, PE, KE, and TE. The higher a cart is placed in the sky the longer duration gravity can affect the cart. When the cart gets pulled down for a longer time the cart has more built-up PE. The Law of Conservation energy states energy cannot be created or destroyed. The law of Conservation energy is extremely important to the design because it will determine whether many aspects of the ride need to be changed such as height and length. The PE will all transfer to KE. KE then will apply more force on the cart causing it to move faster so the cart gains more speed. We also know TE is the combination of KE and PE from the entire ride regardless if the PE or KE was transferred. So TE is dependent on those two factors which in themselves are dependent factors of height and mass. So with that all out the way we have to apply this to the rules of roller coaster designing. The average roller coaster can only have a m/s in-between 6.7m/s -8.4 m/s because anything below 6.7 is considered boring and dull while anything above 8.4 can be fatal. Our simulations did find that a 3.50-meter drop height is the closest way to get an m/s rate of 8.27 throughout the ride which is between 6.7 and 8.4. consistently. Mass is also very important in roller coaster design in its relationships with PE, KE, TE, and speed. Mass allows for a cart to have a longer duration with gravity because objects with more mass are bigger and therefore harder for gravity to pull because the cart weighs more. As we went over transfers into PE which transfers into KE which are both summed up into TE. Then the track moves to a hill then a loop and a flat surface to boot but let's focus on the hill it managed a speed of 7.00 and was able to climb the hill and is lower than. A loop was high in the air at 2.50 meters because the loop had a speed of 8.00 m/s, was able to drive past the course, and is lower than the hill which proves we have determined the hill is safe. The loop is similarly reaching a speed of 7.00 m/s is .50 meters lower than the hill gets the cart to pass and is safe. the flat track is also the same reaching 7.00 m/s is 1.0 meters lower than the loop, the cart and go all the way through meaning every inch of our track is safe and thrilling. I hope you pay us well for our endeavors.
Thank you for this partnership and opportunity Gonzales.