Dear Gonzales family, for your rollercoaster I believe that you should make the initial drop height 3.25 meters high. This allows the speed of the ride to be fun and exciting while also being safe. I know this because when the initial drop is 3.5 meters tall the speed at the bottom of the drop will be 8.27 m/s. Which is just barely too fast for it to be safe. On the other hand, when the initial drop is 3 meters tall the speed at the bottom of the drop will be 7.66 m/s. So with this, I feel the safest and funnest height for the initial drop is 3.25 meters high. I feel that after the initial drop should come a loop, that loop should be 3 meters high. I say this to ensure that the passengers successfully make it to the end of the ride without stopping. I know this will be the case because the loop/ hill has to be shorter than the initial drop, which is just what the loop is. I know this because of some experiments I have conducted, in my data collected when the hill height is 2 meters and the initial drop is 4 meters the car seems to make it over the hill. On the other hand, when both the hill height and the initial drop height are 4 meters the car does not make it over the hill. This is because the potential energy from the initial drop is the set total energy throughout the whole ride and if the hill requires more potential energy than set the car will not make it over. And as stated in the Law of Conservation of Energy energy can not be created nor destroyed, only converted from one to another. This proves that you can not go over the set total amount of energy given to an object. For example, let's say a car has a total energy of 1465 J and is sitting at an initial drop height of 3 meters. The car will go down the hill and the potential energy will convert into kinetic energy and back once it starts going back up the hill. If there wasn't enough potential energy to start with the car won't have enough kinetic energy to go up a hill that's let's say 4 meters tall. I feel that the car should be 50 kg, this is because the mass of the car affects how much PE an object has and I feel that 50kg is a perfect fit. Though while talking about the mass of the car, I just want to tell you that no matter how much mass the car has it will not change the speed. But if the mass of the car increases so will the total energy of the car, affecting the PE and KE as well. As I stated earlier the Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy can not be created nor destroyed, only converted. What isn't directly told in the Law of Conservation of Energy is that if you add up the amount of PE in an object and the amount of KE in an object you will always get the total amount of energy. This is because, again, the PE in an object always will convert into KE and vice versa. After the loop, I feel there should be a hill. The hill should be 2.75 meters high because it is shorter than the initial drop and the loop.