Dear Gonzales family,

My team and I have finished the research on finding the best roller coaster design for you that fits your requests of making the ride fun but also safe with a loop.  The height for the initial drop that my group and I have decided is the best is 3.5 meters.  We decided this basing it off our data making sure that the riders get the thrill of the drop at the same time as keeping it safe.  After the initial drop, we all agreed that putting the loop of 3 meters next would be best.  The next thing that we put in our design was the hill with a height of 2.5 meters high.  We finished off the roller coaster with the cars ending at the top of another hill with a height of 3 meters. Finally, my group agreed that 50 kg would be the best weight for the roller coaster with the heights that we decided on.

We think that 3.5 meters is a good height for the initial drop height because according to our data when the car is at the top of the initial drop it has 1715 newtons of potential energy and no kinetic energy. Then at the bottom of the initial drop, there are 1715 joules of kinetic energy and no potential energy. My group and I talked about the different heights that could be a possibility and narrowed it down to 3.5 because according to our data, 4 meters would have too much velocity making the ride not safe, but 3 meters would not have enough velocity, making the ride not as fun. That is how we came to the conclusion that 3.5 meters would be the best height.  

Additionally, my group and I think that 3 meters would be the best height for the loop after the initial drop because the data that we worked on showed that 3.5 meters would give the car too much velocity and 2.5 meters would be too slow making 3 meters be the safest and most fun height to use. When we collected data on this, we figured out that as the car goes up the loop the kinetic energy transfers to potential energy. Then as the car goes down the loop all of that potential energy transfers back into kinetic energy making the car gain speed again.

After that, my group and I decided that the hill should go next with a height of 2.5 meters. We figured out that when the car goes up the hill, the energy transfers to potential energy but once the car gets over the hill all that energy transfers back to kinetic energy once again making the car gain speed. We found that 2.5 meters would be the best height for the hill, based on our data because when we put the height to 3 meters making the car gained too much velocity. Then when we tested 2 meters, the car went slow making the hill not as fun.

Finally, to finish our track we added another hill with a height of 3 meters making the car stop at the top. We found that this was the best way to end the roller coaster because as the car goes up the hill the energy transfers to potential energy making the car slow down a little bit till it reaches the top. When we tried 3.5 meters and the car could just barely get up the hill making our decision of 3 meters the best option.

The reasoning for why we choose all these heights along with the mass of the car is because of all the relationships between kinetic energy potential energy and mass. The relationship between kinetic energy and potential energy is when the kinetic energy transfers to potential energy or when the potential energy transfers to kinetic energy. The relationship between kinetic energy and mass is direct because mass is in the equation to find the amount of kinetic energy. The relationship between potential energy and mass is direct because mass is in the equation to find the amount of potential energy. The relationships between those things are critical for the roller coaster to work, and the relationships between those things work because of the law of conservation which states that no energy can be created nor destroyed only transformed. The last thing that I would like to explain is total energy, total energy is the overall amount of energy the car has during the ride. In other words, it's all of the energy put together.


