I have found a way to make this roller coaster fun and safe for all. 
The roller coaster should have a mass that is 60 kilograms. I chose this because it will create more total energy. It creates more energy because Potential energy is mass times acceleration due to gravity (9.8). Since energy transfers while the car goes down, the potential energy transfers to kinetic energy.  If it transfers, the total energy will always be the same since there's always the same amount of energy. My data proves this, as the initial drop height was 2 meters and the potential energy was 977 J as the kinetic energy was 0, and at the bottom of the initial drop it was 0J of potential energy and 977 J of kinetic. Which also proves that potential and kinetic energy have an inverse relationship. The total energy staying the same through every test, always the same as the potential energy at the top of the initial drop and the same as the kinetic energy at the bottom. This data further proves that the more mass there is, the higher the total energy would be. This, however, doesn't affect the speed. This is because acceleration due to gravity is always 9.8 m/s so no matter the mass it will fall at the same rate so mass doesn't affect the speed the car will go down the drop, up the hill, etc..

The initial drop at 3.5 meters. I chose 3.5 meters because it would be too dangerous if it was any more meters above that. The higher the initial drop, the faster the speed is. The faster the speed, the more dangerous the ride. My evidence for this is when the initial drop height was 4.5 meters the maximum speed was 8.9 which is far too high, any higher would make it faster and it can't be faster or it would just become more dangerous. While when the initial drop was at 3.5 meters the max speed was 8.3 miles per second. It has to be under 8.4 miles per second for the highest speed or people could get injured and it also has to be fun. The higher the height the more potential energy which means there's more kinetic energy because the energy transfers from potential to kinetic in a frictionless world, with friction there's also useless energies which is what helps things stop. The reason why things don't stop without friction is because of law of conservation of energy, which is that energy can not be created or destroyed only transferred. This means that if the potential and kinetic energy keep transferring then there's no way for the car to stop unless it crashes since there's no useless energies like thermal energy helping the car slow down or stop. 

A hill height of 3 meters and a loop height of 2.5 meters to make it more fun. The hill height and the loop height have to be lower than the initial drop height because if it's higher it won't be able to completely go over the hill without it stopping then going  back and forth. This can happen since the car accelerates by going slower while going up a hill, and faster when going down a hill. Which is also why the loop height has to be below the hill height as well or the car won't make it through the loop.  An example from my data for the hill height having to be smaller than the initial drop is when the initial drop height was 5 meters and the hill height was also 5 meters the car didn't go over the hill.  However, when the initial drop height was 5 meters and the hill height was 3 meters, it went over the hill. The potential energy on the top of a hill with 5 meters as the drop height and 3 meters as the hill height. The kinetic energy at the top of the hill being 973 J. The same thing happens with the loop, which is why it's important for each one to be smaller than the last to keep the momentum.
 
There will also be a bank of 1 meter to slow down the car so it can safely come to a stop since the car slows down with inclines. 
