Dear Mr. and Mrs. Gonzales, my design for your roller coaster includes an initial drop, a loop and two hills that will ensure this is a fun and safe ride. For starters, I think the initial drop height should be 3.75 m so that the coaster car will have enough energy to make it safely through the ride. I know this because during testing, my data shows that when the drop height was 5 m, the PE was 2,688 J, but when I decreased the initial drop height to 4 meters, the PE decreased to 2,150 J. This means we want to make the initial drop height as high as safely possible to give the coaster car enough energy to make it through the ride. You might be wondering how giving the ride more PE at the top gives the ride more energy. By having more PE, there will be more KE and TE. The Law of Conservation of Energy states, energy cannot be created nor destroyed. This means that since PE can't be destroyed, it has to convert into other energies, like KE, and by having more PE, there is more PE to convert into KE. Also, by having more PE there will be more total energy, or TE, because TE is the sum of both PE and KE, so the more PE and KE there is, the more TE there will be. Also, an initial drop height of 3.75 m will give the ride enough speed to safely make it through the ride. I know this because my data shows that when the drop height was 5 m, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 9.89 m/s, but when I decreased the drop height to 4.25 m, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 9.11 m/s. This shows that by giving the ride more height, it will have more speed, which will help the coaster car make it all the way through the ride, and 3.75 m gives the car just enough speed to be considered safe. For the loop height, I suggest 3 m so that the car will have enough energy to make it through the loop while still being shorter than the initial drop height, because 3 m is less than 3.75 m. I can tell that the loop and hill heights have to be shorter than the initial drop height from my data. This is shown in my data because when I had a hill height of 4 m, the car had 529 J of KE, but when I decreased the hill height to 3 m, the car had 1068 J of KE. Looking at this, I suggest that we have a hill after the loop that is 2.5 m tall. This will ensure that the car will make it over the hill because 2.5 m is shorter than 3 m. This means that the roller coaster will have an initial drop height of 3.75 m, a loop that's 3 m, and a hill that's 2.5 m, and then a flat space at the end that will give the car enough time to slow down completely. Finally, I suggest we have a car mass of 55 kg because looking at my data, more mass means more energy. This is seen in my data because when my car mass was 60 kg, the TE was 2,934 J, but when I decreased the mass of the car to 50 kg, the TE was 2,445 J. Also, mass doesn't affect speed so the mass doesn't matter from a speed standpoint. This relationship is seen in my data because when the mass of my car was 40 kg, the speed at the end was 8.84 m/s, and when I increased the mass to 50 kg, the speed was still 8.84 m/s at the end of the ride. In conclusion, the roller coaster should have an initial drop height of 3.75 m, a loop that's 3 m, a hill that's 2.5 m, a flat part after all those and a 55 kg car.