     My roller coaster will have enough total energy to make it to the end. Here's why the drop height is 3.5 meters tall, which will keep the roller coaster's speed under 160 kilometers per second, but over 120 kilometers per second. That will make the roller coaster very fast and fun but still safe. We know this because speed and initial drop height have a direct relationship, meaning that if drop height increases, speed will also increase, and vice versa. We found 3.5 meters tall to be the best height, because of the tests we ran, in the first test we had the drop height at 2.5 meters tall, and the top speed of that test was 6.91 meters per second, for our third test the drop height was 3.21 meters, and its top speed was 7.88 meters per second, and in our final test the drop height was 3.61 meters and its top speed was 8.23. Which was a bit fast so we decided on 3.5 for the initial drop height. But that data proves that initial drop height and speed have a direct relationship and why we chose 3.5 meters tall for the initial drop height.

Next, the loop height is 2 meters tall, we chose this because the loop height cant be equal to or greater than 3.5 because that is the initial drop height, meaning there won't be enough energy to get the car around the loop without falling off the track. Also, we chose this because friction will convert some of the energy to thermal energy, so we didn't want to get close to the height of 3.5 meters tall. This happens because of the law of conservation of energy, which states that energy can't be created or destroyed, meaning it can only be converted. What this means for our loop, is that the energy will start as all potential energy or stored energy, and as the car moves throughout the track, it will get converted amongst potential energy, kinetic energy, and thermal energy (which is caused by friction). This also means that the hotel energy will not change, it will only be converted. The kinetic and potential energy will both increase and decrease, but the thermal energy will only increase until the end. This means that the kinetic energy (which is the moving energy for the car) will keep decreasing over the length of the track. So the car will get slower, and that is why there is not enough energy to get over a loop of 3.3 to 3.5 meters. 

finally, there will be a little hill at the end that is 0.7 meters tall, which the car will have enough energy from the loop to get over because of what I just talked about in the second paragraph. And the mass of the car will be 50kg witch won't affect the speed because mass and speed don't have a relationship, but it will keep the ride fun and safe. 

In conclusion, the car will have enough energy to ride along the whole roller coaster.