First of all, we will make the height of the initial drop 3.5 meters tall. We have learned that when the initial drop height is 5 meters the speed is 9.89 m/s and when the drop height is 4 meters the speed is 8.84 m/s. 9.89 m/s and 8.84 m/s goes over the speed and will make the roller coaster unsafe. That is why we have settled on 3.5 meters since then the roller coaster will be fun and fast but still safe. We want the mass to be 60 kg because we have learned that the more mass, the more stored energy which also means more KE to make it through the coaster. For example, when the mass was 50 kg the total energy was 2,443 J but when the mass was 60 kg the total energy was 2,932 J showing us how the more mass there is, the more energy there is. Height affects PE and KE because the more height there is then there is more stored energy which later converts into KE meaning that height has a direct relationship with PE and KE. To be specific, when the height was 4 meters the PE was 1,955 J and when the height was 5 meters the PE was 2,443 J. Like I mentioned the PE converts to KE when in motion so the KE would also increase if the height increased. Height affects total energy because as height increases, total energy increases as well because there is more PE and KE. Mass affects PE, KE, and total energy because when mass increases there is more PE, KE, and total energy. For instance, when the car mass was 50 kg the PE and KE were both 2,443 J. When the car mass was 60 kg the PE and KE were both 2,932 J. This data also shows how car mass, KE, and PE all have a direct relationship because when one increases the other increases as well. This also shows how total energy and mass have a direct relationship too because if the KE and PE increases then the total energy increases. This helped us decide that we wanted the mass to be the greatest amount of 60 kg because then there would be more energy. When the mass was 50 kg the speed was 8.26 m/s and when mass was 60 kg the speed was 8.26 proving how mass does not affect speed. PE, KE, and total energy have a direct relationship because if the PE increases then the KE will also increase because when there is no friction it is just transforming into KE. When PE and KE increases then the total energy also increases because it is the PE and KE combined. PE and KE have a direct relationship because if the PE goes up then the KE will too because the PE converts into KE. The higher the drop height, the faster the speed because then there is more energy proving how drop height and speed have a direct relationship.We want the hill height to be 3.75 meters and the loop height to be 3.5 meters because then there will be enough energy to make it to the end of the ride but keep it fun. According to the Law of conservation of energy, no mass can be created or destroyed. For example, when the PE was 2,443 J and the KE was 0 J the total was still 2,443 J because there was no friction changing the energy into other mechanical forms and no energy could be destroyed or created. 