Dear Gonzales family, I have worked very hard and have found the best way to create a fun and safe roller coaster to add to your park. To begin with I would like to describe the heights I chose for the roller coaster. For the initial drop I have decided to but that at 4m. I chose this because when deciding your initial drop you must consider that from that drop you need enough energy to make it up the next hill. Looking back at my data points when I put the initial drop height at 3m the speed to the next hill was 7.63 which would be pretty boring and slow if you chose that or lower. But you must also consider to much speed as well. For example at 5m for the initial drop height the speed to the next hill was 9.89 which is to much. Now for the hill height as I explained before can not be grater or the same as the initial drop. So I decided that it would best be but at 3m for the height. This creates a fun and fast way without causing any danger. Now for the mass of the car. The mass would not matter if there was no friction because it would be canceled out when calculating the velocity. Since there is friction though the more mass the more created friction. According to some of the data I took with no friction it showed when the mass of the car was 60 kg the bottom of the drop would be 9.88 joules but when the mass was 40 kg the bottom of the drop was 9.88. I chose to add .2 mass for the coaster so it does not slow down the speed to much because of the added friction. Now that I have told you the height and mass I would like to compare the PE and KE. The PE is effected when there is a grater drop height. The higher the drop height the height the amount of PE. For example when the drop height was 5m the PE was 9.89 but as the drop height got lower, for example when the height was 2.40 the PE was only 7.65. But not only does the drop height effect PE but KE and total energy as well. They all have a very close relationship. When the PE is effected, using the Law of Conservation of Energy it transfers to the KE making it have a higher speed. Using the same data as before you can see that at a drop height of 3 the PE was 3.21 and then when transfers to the KE 7.65 at the end of the ride. This also impact the total energy by have to PE and the KE added up which equals the total energy. In conclusion I think that this design is the best one for you and I hope you consider this as a great new addition to your park. Thank you for your time!!