Our team has been researching, and designing a fun, safe, and exciting ride that we are recommending to the Gonzales Family. In order to achieve this, we have to explain to you the science behind the ride!
For our drop height of the roller coaster, we chose 3.5 meters. We chose this because, in order for our car to make it to the end of the roller coaster, we need a greater amount of stored energy, or PE. The energy that we start with at the top of the initial drop, is the total amount of energy throughout the ride. The higher the height that we have, the more PE we have, and the greater the amount of stored energy there is. 
Having a greater amount of PE will ensure that the ride will make it to the end, too much PE might result in an unsafe ride. This is because that PE transfers into KE, which is energy possessed by motion. If you have more stored potential energy at the beginning of the ride, throughout the ride that stored energy turns into motion energy. Resulting in, the more PE you have, the more KE you have because of how they transfer energy throughout the ride. When you go down a hill, the PE starts transferring to KE, and when you go up the hill, the KE transfers back into PE. 
When designing our roller coaster, we noticed that the higher the drop height, the greater the speed. Based off of our drop height and speed data trials, we can prove that this claim is true. In our first trial we used a drop height of 5 meters, and for the hill height we used 2 meters for all trials. In this 5 meter trial, the speed at the end of the ride was 9.88 m/s. We know from our speed requirements, that this is an unsafe speed for the roller coaster. In our next trial, we used a drop height of 4 meters. In this 4 meter trial, our speed was 8.84 m/s. This meets our maximum speed requirement. In our last trial, we tested a drop height of 3 meters. In the 3 meter trial, the speed at the end of the ride was 7.66 m/s. We concluded from these trials, that 4 meters, and 3 meters met our requirements, and would result in an exciting and safe ride. We picked 3.5 meters because it was in between the safest drop heights, and we can ensure that it will be at a safe speed.

The next component of our roller coaster is the hill height. We chose for our hill height to be 2 meters. When people think of an exciting ride, they think of crazy heights and crazy drops. But in order to achieve this excitement, we have to think of the science behind the ride itself. We know that PE is stored energy, and at the beginning of the ride, which is the initial drop, we can't have a higher hill height, than the drop height. This is because there wouldn't be enough energy to get to the top of the hill. It would need a greater amount of PE, and the only amount of PE we have, is what we started with at the beginning of the initial drop. Based off of this, we know that the height, affects the PE, KE, and TE. The more height there is, the more energy there is. Throughout the ride, PE and KE transfer from one to another when going downhill, or even going uphill, and on flat surfaces. This is because the stored energy is being transferred into energy possessed by motion. This is the same reason for how height affects the TE. PE and KE always add up to the total energy, so when the height is greater or less, so is the PE, KE, and TE. Adding on to this, we need enough speed to get to the top of the hill. But how will we know if we have enough speed and energy to get to the top? Well, the higher the hill height the higher the speed. Using the data from the drop height and speed trial from above, we know that this is true.
The last component of our roller coaster, is deciding the car mass. Based on our mass and speed data trials, we found out that no matter the mass, the speed stays the same. In our first data trial we used a car mass of 60 kg, and our speed at the end of the ride was 8.84 m/s. In our next trial, with a car mass of 50 kg, our speed at the end of the ride was 8.84 m/s. And our last trial, using a car mass of 40 kg, our speed at the end of the trial was 40 m/s. According to this data, we chose 50 kg as our mass. This is because the speed will stay the same, but the energy won't. Since we have chosen a mass of 50 kg, we wanted to know how this affected the energy throughout the ride. From a previous mass and energy trial, we noticed that the greater the mass, the greater PE, KE, and TE.
Finally, we have talked about the components of our design, and how its safe. And the last thing we want to talk about is the energy throughout the ride. The law of conservation of energy states that no energy is created nor destroyed. That's because all of the stored energy we started with (PE) is what we end with (TE) and also what gets transferred into motion (KE). Our ride would be unsafe if the energy would be added throughout the ride. It could also make the ride more dangerous too if the energy was being destroyed, and we didn't have enough to get through the ride safely. 
Thank you for taking time to read about the safety of our roller coaster design, we hope this will be an amazing, safe, and exciting ride for your customers, and yourself to enjoy!