I have been running more and more experiments to collect as much data as I can to make your roller coaster the best it can be. Based on my data I have found that the mass of your car does not have an impact on your coaster. If there is a greater mass in your car this is not going to change how much speed is present. For your coaster if you are going to want to invent a ride that has high speeds where it is still safe you are going to need to think about height. The reason that you need to think about height is that when something has a greater height as it is making its way down there will be much more speed along with it. The height brings more energy along with it. As this energy is passed through the object that is getting transferred it makes the speed outcome much greater. Mass of the car with not have an effect on the outcome of speed. Now height also affects many other things such as potential energy, kinetic energy, total energy, and as said speed. the height of something has a lot of purposes. So for example the height of the initial drop of a roller coaster. The greater the amount of height that there will be present there with have a huge outcome on the amount of speed, potential energy, kinetic energy, and total energy. This is because energy is what creates speed. so if there is more energy that is present in something than the speed that there also is present in that as well. The height will first overall affect the starting potential energy, ending kinetic energy, and total energy outcome. This is because at the beginning of the coaster is when the vehicle is at its highest point that it is going to reach throughout the entire ride. So if that highest point is at its max it can be then so is the potential energy and the total energy outcome. The total energy outcome comes from the highest amount of potential energy that was present throughout the ride. This will have an effect on the kinetic energy at the end, being at its greatest amount reached as well. With all of these being at their greatest point that they can reach, this will allow the speed to have the greatest outcome it can have. Now on the other hand there is always a question of "How does mass affect PE, KE, total energy, and speed?"  Well, the answer is, mass doesn't really affect any of these sources of energy. The reason behind this is, mass doesn't change the amount of something that is going to be present. It only changes the amount of what something weighs and doesn't really have an impact on any energy source. There is a relationship between potential energy and kinetic energy. What makes these two energy sources have such a strong relationship is energy transfer. The reason that this is a big part of potential energy and kinetic energy is that when they are working together they transfer the energy that one of them has to the other. Potential energy starts off greater than kinetic energy, as soon as the vehicle starts making its way down the initial drop it transfers its energy into kinetic energy. So at the beginning of the ride, the potential energy is greater than the kinetic than at the end of the ride the kinetic energy is greater than the potential energy. The total energy is based on the outcome of the potential energy. It will take the greatest amount of potential energy that the car reached. The law of conservation of energy is the law of where energy passes throughout the ride. It is the amount of energy present and where you get the energy from. There will be more energy present if you have a greater amount of height. This is because when the car is going down the initial drop more energy there is put onto it. I hope that some of this data can help you out with building your roller coaster and give you a better idea of how it all works! Good luck. 