The initial drop height will be 3.5m the loop will be 2.5m, the first hill will be 2m and the last hill will be 1m, and our car will weigh 60kg. We chose to have our initial height be 3.5m because it is the tallest safe height because it doesn't exceed 8.4 m/s. We chose to have a loop height of 2.5 because it is shorter than the initial drop and there is also friction that would slow it down more and is not too long where it would waste the rest of the energy on friction for the rest of the ride. I chose hill heights of 1 and 2 meters because they are shorter than the initial drop and there is room for the energy to be converted to thermal energy and still make it. The law of conservation of energy affected our decisions because we know energy can not be created or destroyed. So it would not be possible to make any of the loops or hills taller than the drop because we can't create the energy we can only transform it. PE and KE have a direct relationship so when an initial drop is higher it has more stored energy which is also another name for PE and when you go down the hill the PE transfers to KE. It is also the same way with weight PE and KE. We want to have as much PE KE as possible because it will make it up and around loops and hills easier. Potential and kinetic energy has a direct relationship. I can prove this because my data shows at the top of a drop there is a lot of PE and at the bottom, there is a lot of KE. But when I make the drop really small there is little PE at the top and little KE at the bottom. the total energy stays the same the whole ride because energy can not be created or destroyed it can just be transformed from one type of energy to the other. mass and energy have a direct relationship because when it has more mass once it gets going it is harder to stop and has more inertia. Drop height and speed have a direct relationship because it is falling farther and has more time to get moving fast. Mass and speed have no relationship because gravity is always the same and my data proves this because when the mass was 40 the speed was 8.3 but when the mass was 60 the speed was still 8.3.. It