Heights & Mass- For the height of the roller coaster we would do 3.50m because that makes the roller coaster's speed at the end of the ride 8.27m/s. Having the roller coaster at a rate of 8.27m/s is good because it is both fun and safe. The cart's mass does not matter because the mass is the same speed whether it is larger or smaller. My data supports this because I made the mass of the car 60kg and the speed at the end of the ride was 8.38m/s and then I made the mass of the car 40kg and the rate at the end of the ride was 8.38m/s, the same as the 60kg

Height- If the roller coaster is taller then there would be more kinetic energy and potential energy. This also means in a roller coaster was taller there would be more speed. I know this because my data states that when my roller coaster was 5m the speed was 9.78m/s at the end of the initial drop and when the initial drop was 2.50m the speed at the end of the initial drop was 6.99m/s.

Mass- The roller coaster's mass would not affect the speed or the energy of the roller coaster because the gravitational pull is always 9.8 in every object. Therefore the mass of the cart would not change anything because the gravitational pull is the same even if the cart is heavier. When I tested the mass of the car as 40kg the total energy was 8.38m/s. When I did the same thing but with 60kg the total energy was 8.38m/s. So that means no matter what the mass is the roller coaster will always be the same speed.  

Energy transfer- The relationship between potential energy, kinetic energy, and total energy is energy transfer. The potential energy is at the way beginning of the rollercoaster when there is no movement and as the cart starts the move the potential energy slowly turns into kinetic energy. In the end, all of the energy is not transferred but added to get the total energy, if you were to add friction to the simulation the total energy would be distributed into three different categories. Those categories are potential energy, kinetic energy, and thermal energy. In that situation, all of those energies would be added up to get the total energy. 

Law of conservation of energy- The law of conservation of mass states that energy can not be created nor destroyed. The energy total energy in the roller coaster may not add up in the end and some energy may look like it is lost but that is not true. The energy that seems to be lost is in thermal energy and is still accounted for.  

