The roller coaster's initial drop height should be 3.5 meters tall. I chose this height because this gives the most speed while still being safe. The relationship between height and speed is a direct relationship which says that when height increases the speed of the ride increases. I also chose this height because it gives the most PE while still being safe. The relationship between PE and height is direct saying, that when the height increases the PE increases. So, in my roller coaster, I chose the initial drop of 3.5 meters tall so the PE   will be maximized. For the hill, I chose the height to be 3 meters. I chose this height because it gives another big gain in speed while being safe and it will make sure that the car will stay on the track. The relationship between height and KE is shown here being a direct relationship. This means that as height increases the KE throughout the coaster increases. For the weight of the car, I chose 60 kg. I chose this because you can fit more people in a car that can weigh more. The relationship between mass and energy is that as the mass goes up the energy stays the same. Also, the relationship between mass and speed is that as the mass increases the speed stays the same. This shows that mass and speed have a direct relationship. Throughout the ride, the relationship between PE and KE is a direct relationship meaning that as the PE increases the KE increases. So when I chose all of these heights I knew that if I give the ride more PE the KE will increase adding more adrenaline to the riders. All of these heights and weights have been decided using the law of conservation of energy stating energy can not be created or destroyed. This affected my decisions because it tells me that the TE can be increased or decreased so I know that when the PE gets increased and the TE stays the same that means that the energy is transformed from the KE. Throughout this whole roller coaster, I put in mind that when the TE of the ride is always the amount of PE plus the amount of KE at a certain moment of the ride.