Hi Mr and Mrs Gonzales me and my team has a discussion and the best height and mass for your roller coaster is 50kg of mass 3.50m drop height and 2.25m hill. This will be the perfect amount of potential energy based on the carts placement but also the ride will be fun with an exact top speed at 8.2 m/s leaving this coaster safe but also fun. Based on my data when the drop height was too high there would be more speed because there would be more of a height to go down. But when I had the initial drop was below 3m me and my team felt this was slower than we wanted so we went to 3.50m and this was the perfect speed and enough potential and kinetic energy to make the cart go over the track. Height affects the potential and kinetic energy because when you have a steeper drop there is a longer hill. In my data I can clearly show when I had a drop height of 3.5 and a drop height of four the speed. The speed of the drop height at four had to much kinetic and potential energy transferring leading to accidents such as injury's or death. The total energy also increases when the drop height is increased because when the potential and kinetic energy goes up so does the total energy like a scale. The mass also affects the potential and kinetic energy because in a friction less environment the mass does not matter the speed will not increase it will stay the same. Just like in space if you drop a hammer and a feather they will go to the ground at the same time because weight is not a factor in a  friction less environment. But in an environment with friction the weight does matter the more weight you have the less velocity you will have because friction is pulling back on that object making the speed decrease. The total energy will not change because the friction is an indirect relationship meaning if they change the friction this does not change the energy at all. Potential and kinetic energy are directly related if you change the variable in the equation the mass and kinetic energy will increase or decrease based on what variable you change. In a friction less environment the starting potential energy will always be the ending kinetic energy in a friction environment that leftover potential energy changes to thermal energy. The total energy will always be the total of KE+PE+Thermal=TE The potential,kinetic and total energy are all indirect if you change one you automatically change the others. The law of conservation of energy affects my design because as we know energy is neither created nor destroyed but transferred into one another. Knowing this I have to get the right hill initial drop and mass to make the car as safe as possible. The law of conservation also effects my speed transferring from one type of energy to another. My initial drop will be 3.50m a 2.25 hill a loop that is 1.50m and my mass speed will be 8.2 m/s. Thank you Mr and Mrs Gonzales for the great journey and I hope to see your new roller coaster soon. As you can tell the relationship between the initial drop and hill height is a direct relationship if one changes the other one automatically changes if we want a safe trial. As we know the mass and speed are a direct relationship with kinetic energy and the independent variable in PE if I were to change the mass the speed would change based on the math. Height and speed are indirectly related if one is changed the other one will change as well.