Hello Gonzalez family, 
I have thought through and made some new tests so I can create the best roller coaster for your amusement park. I have come to the conclusion that the best initial drop height will be 3.5 m/s. I have decided this because if we have a car with a mass of 45kg and an initial drop of 3.5 the total speed at the end of the ride is 8.3 m/s which is fast enough to be fun, but not too fast where the passengers will be injured. I experimented with different masses with this drop of 3.5 meters and I found that the heavier we put the mass the more speed didn't change. This is based because there is no friction. The heavier the coaster car the more friction will act on it, so we set the coaster car to be 45kg. When we set the coaster car to this mass, the coaster car still keeps the speed but there is not as much friction acting on the car. 

The next observations that I made were based on the relationships between potential energy, kinetic energy, and height. When we look at the relationships between the potential energy and the height we see two things. The equation for potential energy is PE=mass x gravity due to acceleration (9.8) x HEIGHT. When we increase the amount of height that the coaster track has, we raise a number in the equation which results in a higher speed. On the other hand, the equation for kinetic energy is KE=1/2 x mass x velocity^2. Nowhere in this equation does it talk about the height of the coaster. This means that changing the height of the coaster has an INDIRECT relationship with the speed and the height of the roller coaster. Increasing the height in general makes the total energy larger because the total energy is the potential energy and the kinetic energy added together, and if we raise the potential energy we are also raising the total energy.

The mass of a roller coaster also affects the speed of the coaster car. In potential energy, the equation is PE=mass x gravity due to acceleration (9.8) x height. If we raise the mass of the car the potential energy will raise. We see this in some of the data that I have recorded. When the coaster car had a mass of 40 kg vs. a mass of 60 kg, the car with 60 kg has more friction acting on it making the speed decrease. So the lower the mass of the coaster car is, the lower the speed will be. On the contrary, the equation for kinetic energy is 1/2 x mass x velocity^2. If we increase the mass of the coaster car the speed will increase as well. When we increase the mass in the equation the numbers become higher, therefore, making the result of the equation also higher. If we were to add mass to the coaster car the total energy will also increase because both the kinetic and potential energy will increase as well. 

The relationship between potential energy and kinetic energy is the transfer. At the top of the initial drop, all of the energy is potential, there is no kinetic energy shown. Then as the coaster car is falling down the initial drop and later all of the other hills the energy transfers from potential energy to kinetic energy. At the bottom of the hills and the end of the ride, the potential energy was all transferred to kinetic energy. The total energy will stay the same throughout the ride if you are in a frictionless environment. The total energy is the potential and kinetic energy added up, minus the thermal energy that is made. 

Finally, the law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created nor destroyed. This means that there is no energy that can be added or taken away while an object is moving. This is important to know because then we can account for the coaster car's full potential. The only energy that can be "created" is thermal energy because it is created by friction, but even this process is a transfer.

Thank you for your time. These are the final observations that I have made, I will make the safest and most fun roller coaster that I can!