To make a safe roller coaster the speed has to be under 35 mph for it to be fun and safe for everyone riding the roller coaster. I chose to make my heights for my roller coaster 5m for the Initial drop, 3.48 m for the hill, and 2.5m for our loop. I chose these heights because then the car can make it all the way threw the roller coaster, without stopping. The mass of my car is 60kg because a heavier car is better for my roller coaster because it is harder for the car to slow down and it's better at going fast because of its mass. I chose the heights and mass of my roller coaster because that's what worked best for my trials. Initial height, In my trials I did an initial height of 5 my speed at the bottom of the drop was 9.79, and at the end of the roller coaster, it was 9.58, so with a higher initial drop the car is faster and goes for longer. for my hill, Inmy trials I did a hill height of 3.25m  with an initial drop of 4m, the total energy was 2445 and it made it threw the ride, so when the hill is smaller than the drop the car can make it threw the hill and the rest of the coaster. The loop, for a loop in my trials I did 2.50m and I had a drop height of 5m and a hill of 3.00, the coaster made it all they wat threw with enough energy at the end. The relationship between height and PE is direct because if the height doubles the amount of PE doubles. If the height goes up the PE goes up. The relationship between mass and PE is direct because if the mass is more the more PE there is. For my data trials, I did 60kg of mass and the height was 5m the PE was high is the Initial drop and at the top of the hill (about 2932 J and, 1427 J). 
         How KE is affected by mass and height in my roller coaster, the relationship between KE and height is direct because if the height is higher there can be more KE. The relationship between mass and KE is direct because If the mass is heavier the KE is higher because there is a larger drop so the KE gains inertia. For my data trials, I did 60kg of mass and the height was 5m the Ke was high at the bottom of the initial drop ( about 2930 J). How Total energy is affected by height and mass in my coaster, the relationship between total energy and height is direct because if the PE goes down or u with height the total energy changes and the same goes with PE. The mass and total energy relationship are also direct because of the PE and KE if the KE goes up because of the mass and how tall the hill is the total energy goes up and the same with PE. For my data trials, I made the initial drop 5m and the mass 60kg and the total energy was higher when those were higher for example it was about 2932 J for the total energy. 
             Also, the relationship between speed and height, and mass is direct. Because if the mass goes up there is more momentum in the ride which is like speed and for height when there is more height there is normally more speed. For my data trials, I did 5m height and 60kg mass and the speed was 9.9mp/s. The relationship between KE, PE, and total energy is direct because if the PE or KE goes down the total energy goes down, or the total energy goes up because the total energy is PE and KE added together. For my trials, I did 5m height and 60kg mass and my PE was 2932 J, and my KE was 2932 J so my total energy at its most was 2932 J. The relationship affects my ride because it matters if I make it threw and if it's fun or not. In my rollercoaster, The Law of Conservation of Energy affected my ride by the PE and KE changing between each other. Because when the car is not moving or going to move it has more PE than KE. When it's going down the drop it has more KE than PE because the car is moving and it changes throughout the ride but no energy can ever be created or destroyed it can only change into different energy.