Hello, here is our roller coaster design.

First we made our initial height 3.5 meters. We did this because any height over 3.5 meters would be unsafe. We want it specifically at 3.5 meters because it will have the most amount of energy. In our data we found out that if we use 3.5 meters as the drop height we would get 1710 J of total energy. That is because height and total energy have a direct relationship. Initial drop height and speed also have a relationship. In our trials we changed the initial drop height to see how it affected the speed. When we had an initial drop height of 5 the speed was 9.88. Then when we had an initial drop height of 4 the speed was 8.26. This is because initial drop height and speed have a direct relationship. Our next hill height is 1.5 meters. We chose this because we could not make the height over 3.5 meters. Having the hill height be higher than the initial drop would result in the car not making it over the hill. We can support this using our data, when we used the initial drop height of 5 meters we tested various hills. Every hill under 5 meters would let the car make it to the end. However when we used a hill height of 5 meters it couldn't make it over. We also had 2 loops after the hill. Those heights were 1.2 and 0.5 meters. We did this because they are less than 3.5 meters so it will still make it over. We will also be making the mass of the car 60 kg. We did this because this would make sure we had the most amount of energy possible. This is obvious when we look at data from our trials when the mass was 60 kg the total energy was 2932 J. When we tried any 50 kg we only got 2424 J of total energy.  However this would not make the car any faster. That is because mass and velocity have no relationship. This is proven using one of our trials when the mass of the car was 50 kg the total energy was 8.27. Then when the mass was 60 kg the total energy was still 8.27. Height affects PE, KE and total energy. Height affect PE because it is directly there in the equation. PE= mass x gravity x height. The relationship between height and PE is direct. Height affects KE because height and velocity have a direct relationship. Velocity is also in the equation for KE. KE=1/2(mass) x velocity^2. Since in the equation velocity is squared the relationship is not direct. The relationship is better described as exponential. Since height effects PE and KE and PE+KE=total energy. Height has a relationship with total energy. Mass affects PE, KE and total energy. Mass affects PE because it is in the equation. PE= mass x gravity x height. The relationship between PE and mass is direct. Mass affects KE because it is in the equation. KE=1/2(mass) x velocity^2. The relationship between KE and mass is direct. Since KE+PE=total energy, mass and total energy have a direct relationship. The relationship between PE and total energy is direct. The relationship between KE and total energy is direct. The relationship between PE and KE is inverse. The law of conservation states you cannot create or destroy energy they can only transfer. This relates to our roller coaster because it shows we cannot create or destroy any energy. 