Dear Gonzales family, I can now assure you that the roller coaster that I've designed will succeed and bring tons of customers to your amusement park. The first thing i would like to address is the exact dimension of the coaster. First, the height of the initial drop will be 10 meters high and the next hill/drop will be 8 meters. Than the car will roll down a speedy hill and up a loop of 5.5 meters high. Finally the car will climb and small hill of 4 meters and reach the ending flat area to make a final stop.  You might notice that the heights of thing keep getting smaller. This needs to happen so that the car still has enough energy after each drop to make it up the next hill. The first drop height needs to be as high as it is because at 10 meters it will make the car have a lot of potential energy that then transfers into Kinetic energy once it moves downward. The higher height will also make the coaster faster and more thrilling because the more PE it has the more total and KE it will also have to go down the drop. Data proves this because in our height and speed experiment when the height was 5 meters the speed was at 9.89 however when the height was only 3 meters the speed was 7.65. The mass of the roller coaster will be 50 kg. We decided to make the cart mass not too high or low because data has shown that if the friction remains the same the mass does not change the speed at all. The relationship between PE, KE, and total energy is while the roller coaster is sitting still it has all of the remaining or total energy. Once the car starts moving the the energy transfers to KE and some to thermal energy due to friction. From then on the energy you have to work with is whatever was transferred only to KE and the amount transferred in thermal energy is no longer of use. The law of transformation of energy states that energy cannot be removed or added from a system such as this coaster. This is why the total energy stays the same the whole time while the energy is being transferred. 