      The Gonzales family has asked us to make a safe and fun roller coaster design, which is exactly what we did.
     My group decided that 3.5m was a good height for our design. The reason for that is that it will get enough energy to go through the whole ride but not over the maximum speed. We have chosen to go with 50kg for our car mass because we will get a good amount of energy going throughout the entire ride. We also stuck with this because 50 was right in the middle so then we thought we would definitely have enough energy. Our data shows that when the height was 3m that we were getting a good amount of speed because the speed at the bottom of the drop was 7.45 m/s. But when we saw that the speed at the top of the hill was only 4.43 m/s that is when we decided to go with 3.5m because we would get even more speed. The height affects pe because the pe would be higher if the drop was higher and the same thing with the ke at the bottom. The height affects the total energy because whatever the pe and ke are that got affected by the drop added becomes the new total energy.
     My group chose to go with 1.5m for the hill height and 2m for the loop height. The reason for this is because with having our drop height at 3.5m we decided to put the loop almost right after so that we knew it could generate enough speed to get through the loop. The drop height affects the hill and loop speed because if the drop was shorter there would be less speed and if the drop was a lot higher the speed would increase as well. We chose to put the hill last because it is the shortest with a height of 1.5m so we knew that the car would make it through the hill. Our data shows that the speed was always the most when it was at the end of the ride therefore it was going to make it through and over the loop and the hill.
    My group chose to go with a car mass of 50kg because we thought that we would definitely get enough energy until the end of the ride. We also chose 50kg because that is what we have used since the start. The mass affects pe and ke because when there is more mass in the object the more pe and ke there are going to be. Same if there is less mass there will also be less ke and pe. Mass also affects the total energy because whatever the pe and ke are added would then be the total energy. No matter what the mass is of an object it will not affect its speed. The mass will determine the energy that is involved.
      The relationship between pe, ke, and total energy is fairly simple. The reason for that is that potential energy transforms into kinetic energy. And the total energy is the kinetic energy and potential energy added up together or combined.
      Our design is fun and safe because our mass and height would not make riders get near the maximum speed or close to a dangerous speed. It will also be fun though because the riders will gain a fun amount of speed and be able to go through the loop and over the hill safely without any problems. The reason for that is that our height drop is a decent length higher so you will be sure to make it to the end. The Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. So, for example, energy throughout a roller coaster is not getting destroyed it's either switching or the friction is turning into mechanical energy which turns into other forms of energy like heat+ thermal energy, and sound energy.
     
