Gonzales family I think you should chose my roller coaster because it is fun and safe. Starting off with a initial drop height of 3.6 meters because it is the safes height. In a test where we did a initial drop height of 5 meters we got a speed of 9.86  (m/s) which is way over the safe speed of 8.4(m/s) so we needed to slow it down. How do we do that we lower the height, to 3.6 meters which gave us a speed of 8.39 which is just under the safe speed. We knew lowering the height to 3.6 would give us a slower speed because PE is the amount of potential an object has at a certain height. Because the higher it is the more PE it has the more PE it has the more KE or motion/speed. so the higher the initial drop the more speed. also to make it even more fun we want to add a hill. We have are first loop of 4 at a height of 3 meters. Because the hill needs to be shorter than the initial drop because if it was the same height the car wouldn't make it over the hill. also mass does not affect the energy. because  In are tests we did a mass of 60kg and got  a speed of 8.27(m/s). For the second test we did a mass of 40kg and got a speed of 8.27(m/s). so mass doesn't affect speed because PE is the amount of potential an object has at a certain height mass has nothing to do with PE and if it doesn't do anything to PE it wont affect KE or speed. With are roller coaster the car will make it to the end safely and super fun going as fast as it can with 4 loops and a hill to close the ride as it comes to a end. thorough the law of conservation of energy it will maintain a speed and be fun and safe for riders.Total energy because energy can not be created or destroyed where energy stays the same but transfers to different forms.. Also we did these tests in a non-friction environment and some energy will be transfers through friction into many forms of energy. Also PE at the initial drop has a set amount of energy. But as it goes down the initial drop the PE turns into KE or moment. Energy can not be created or destroyed so PE transfers to KE and KE to PE. 