Hi Mr. Gonzales, I think the initial drop height should be 3.5 m. The drop height should be this because if your height is higher the more PE you will have. If there is more PE then through energy transfer the KE at the end.  Therefore there will be more speed to make it a fun and exciting ride. For example, when the height was 3 m there was 1466 J of PE at the start and 1466 J of KE at the end. Then when the height was 2 m there was only 977 J of PE at the start, and 977 J of KE at the end. This shows that energy and speed have a direct relationship because when one increases the other one does too. The mass of the car should be 60 kg. The mass doesn't affect the speed because the mass can be canceled out when solving the equation. The mass, however, does affect PE and KE. When there is a larger mass there is going to be more PE and KE, which the KE controls how fast the car would move. For example, when the mass of the car was 50 kg the PE was only 2444J at the start, and 2444 J of KE at the end. When the mass was 60 kg the PE and KE increased. It was 2932 J of PE at the start and 2932 J at the end. This shows that the mass does affect the KE which affects the motion and how fast the car moves. The height of the hill should be 3 m. The height should be that because the car needs to have enough energy to make it over the hill while being safe. For example, when the hill height was the same as the initial drop height there wasn't enough energy to transfer for the car to make it over. The car then rocked back and forth not making it over the hill. This is the same reason why the loop height should be less than the hill height. So there wouldn't be enough energy for the car to make it through the loop if the height of it is greater or the same as the hill height. This all happens because the energy can transfer between each other. At the start of the roller coaster ride when the ride is at rest all of the energy is PE because the car isn't in motion. But when the car is in motion or when the car is at the end of the ride the car's energy is all KE. This is because of the law of conservation of energy, energy cannot be created or destroyed but the energy transfers from PE to KE and other non-useful energies. We also know this is true because the total energy stays the same throughout the entire ride. To get TE you add up the total amount of PE and KE. If there is no friction the total energy should stay the same throughout the entire ride. This ride will be safe because the speed does not exceed 8.4 m/s but it does exceed 6.7 m/s to make it a fun and enjoyable ride for any rider!