This roller coaster has the perfect heights, speed and is really fun to ride.
The drop height of the roller coaster will be 3.5 meters. My data shows that when the drop height is 5 meters, the speed gets up to 9.88 m/s, which is very unsafe. I also tried a drop height of 2 meters and the speed was 6.26 m/s, too slow and not fun at all. When the drop height is set to be 3.5 meters the speed is 8.26 m/s, perfect for safety and fun. The reason the speed increases when the height increases is because at the top of the drop the coaster has PE. Height has a direct relationship with PE, meaning they increase when the other one does and they decrease when the other one does. Having the  greater PE with the additional height makes it so when the PE transfers into KE, the KE also is increased. We know we kept the mass the same, and the only compenents in KE are velocity and mass so when the PE transfers to KE with a greater amount, speed is what increases. Once the roller coaster is over the total amount of energy will be increased because of the height increasing the PE at the top and KE at the bottom. 
For the mass of the coaster we chose 50 kg. Whithout friction, mass does not affect speed at all. When the PE is transfering into KE the mass gets cancled out. PE equation is m x g x h and KE equation is 1/2 x m x v^2, so when getting transfered you get m x g x h = 1/2 x m x v^2. You divide the mass on boths sides and it gets cancled out leaving, g x h = 1/2 x v^2. Multiply 2 on each side, the 1/2 turns into 1 and on the other side you have 2 x g x h. After that you square root each side making it so √2 x g x h = v. So velocity's equation has nothing to do with mass, making it so the mass doesn't affect velocity at all.
PE and KE add up to the total amount of energy, total energy. At any point in the ride if you add the PE and KE that will give you the total energy. PE transfers into KE as it speeds up and goes down drops. Energy doesn't get created or distroyed, so as the car moves up and down the PE and KE transfers to one another they do not disapear or randomly apear they just transfer.
My hill height is going to be at 3.25 meters high so the car gets over perfectly fine with just the right amount of speed. If the hill were to be greater then the initial drop then it wouldn't have enough energy to get over the hill. This is the same with the loop, our loop is going to be 3.25 meters high so everything is fun and safe. Energy not being able to be created or destroyed makes it so if the hill or loop is heigher then the initial drop there simply will not be enough energy to make it over the hill or loop.