Are roller coaster design is a fun but safe ride. How the height affects the PE and KE is if there is a higher height there will be a higher PE and when going down the hill the PE turns into KE. and how PE and KE affect mass and total energy. The mass of a cart does not affect the speed. I had the smae setting and the same everything but i change ed the mass and then it did not change a thing.  does not affect the  PE and KE  When the Cart is going down the hill and has a PE of 1400 at the top half way to the bottom it will change into 700 PE and 700 a KE. and when it gets to the bottom. The total amount of PE will be 0 and KE will be 1400. The way that law of conservation of mass affects my design is that is all the mass will go to KE at the bottom and 0 % of the energy will be crated or destroyer. the reason we chose the mass of 55 and the height of 3.5 is because they made it so that there was it was fun and still safe . (Potential energy - PE)  (Kentic energy - KE) The drop height when changed changes the PE. for example when i had a release height of 5 meters beside 4 meters the 5 meter one had a higher PE because the higher you go up the better PE it has. The same is with KE At the top it is at zero and at the bottom it has the same amount as the PE had at the top. That when adding up for total energy you add both KE and PE together.  When the cart is going down the PE changes to KE on the way down when it is at half way the have the same amount. When the energy is being transfer. and the law of conservation of mass states that  energy can not  be crated or destroy. but it can be transfused in to KE or PE. The relationship between drop height and hill height because the hill height is when it is at the very top and the drop height is when it is going down.  That the lighter the mass is it will have a better PE because it weighs less. I tested this zero friction that is not real and cant happen. that when there is more mass there is more energy because it is more heavy. also when i test the drop height was at 5 meters it had 2668 PE. and at the bottom it had 0 PE the Ke had 0 at the top and at the bottom it had 2668 Ke this shows that the PE gave Ke all the energy. when there is more PE at the top at the boot eon is the same as yhe KE at the top.
