Hey Gonzales Family, I designed a roller coaster with my team and I know it's safe and fun.

My team and I decided on making our Initial drop height 3.6 meters. Having the drop height of 3.6 meters is beneficial because it has the energy that allows it to keep the roller coaster moving throughout the ride. The original plan was to have the Initial drop height of 5 meters although that didn't work since it was unsafe to have the max speed be 9.88m/s. After knowing that 5 meters didn't work I went to 3 meters and it was safe but too slow to make the ride exciting since the max speed was 7.65m/s. My team and I found that the best initial drop height that was safe and the most fun was 3.6 meters. The initial drop height affects how much energy the ride has, and the more energy the more speed. Say the initial drop height was 3 meters, the Potential Energy would be 1759 Joules and while the ride goes on that Potential Energy will convert into Kinetic Energy since Kinetic Energy is speed. That is why the initial drop height affects the speed of the roller coaster.

My team and I decided on making our hill height 2.5 meters. The hill height has to be less than the drop height otherwise the ride wouldn't be able to continue. The hill height affects how much speed the car will go down the hill since the more height the more Potential energy which means the more Potential energy that can convert into Kinetic Energy which is speed.

 My car mass was 60kg. I decided on 60kg because it increases the total energy of the ride. It also doesn't affect the speed. This is because in the equation the mass cancels out and leaves gravity and height to be what causes the speed. To prove this we tested 3 different masses for the car with all the same heights. We started with 60kg and found out that the speed at the end of the ride was 8.83m/s. We then tested 50kg and found out that the speed at the end of the ride was still 8.83m/s. We tested one more time with 40kg and found out that the speed at the end of the ride was still 8.83m/s. This proves mass does not affect the speed at all.  

This ride is safe and exciting to ride. The initial drop height is 3.6 to ensure your safety of not going too quick. Having the initial drop height be 3.6 allows the max speed to be 8.4m/s. Thank you for your time. 