Hello Gonzales family, I am writing this note to leave you information for your new roller coaster you are developing. I would like to leave you information on the current coaster and the science behind it. First we have the initial drop of the ride with a height of 3.5 meters. We need a decently tall initial drop so that the roller coaster has enough energy to get through the rest of the ride, and the height of the drop effects the potential energy of the ride giving it more potential energy. Which then leads to more speed. But we don't want the initial drop to be too high or the ride will be too fast and unsafe. The cars mass will be 50 kilograms. Due to the cars mass, the potential energy at the top of the initial drop will be around 1712 joules and the kinetic energy will be 0 joules. 1712 joules is also the total energy of the ride, it is the total amount of energy the ride will have through the ride, no more, no less. This is because of the Law of Conservation of Energy. The Law of Conservation of Energy is the law that no energy can be created or destroyed, only converted. So throughout the the ride, the kinetic energy and the potential energy will always equal up to 1712 joules, the total energy. At the bottom of our initial drop, the potential energy will be 0 joules and the kinetic energy will be 1712 joules. after the initial drop, we have a hill of 3 meters. The height of the rest of the hills and loops from now on have to have a height less then the hill or loop before them. So the initial drop has to be the highest drop on the ride. at the top of the hill, the potential energy will be 1442 joules and the kinetic energy will be 270 joules. Once the car gets back to the bottom of the hill, the potential energy will be 0 joules again and the kinetic energy will be 1712 joules. After the hill, the next things is a loop. The loop will be 2.5 meters tall. At the top of the loop, the potential energy will be 1225 joules and the kinetic energy will be 487 joules. After the loop of the hill, we have another hill that will lead into a straight for the ride to stop. The hill will be 1.5 meters tall, the kinetic energy will be 989 joules and the potential energy will be 723 joules. then the hill will lead into the end of the ride. That is the coaster that we designed. The car mass is 50 kilograms so that it will be a little bit faster because the mass adds more potential energy at the initial drop. And like we said, the Law of Conservation of Energy is how energy cannot be created or destroyed, just converted. And that shows how the total energy is just potential energy and kinetic energy combined and how they convert into each other. So that is how we plan to make an amazing ride for your family that is very thrilling but still very safe. 