The heights that we have chosen for each part of our roller coaster include an initial drop height of 3.5m because it is the tallest drop height that is also safe for riders. Our first hill will have a height of 3m because we don't want the first hill to be larger than the initial drop, but we still want a large hill. That first hill will be followed by a 2.5m loop, to create a fun aspect of the roller coaster. And finally, the ride will end with a 1.5m hill, to slow down the ride and create a safe ending. For the car mass, we decided to go with 50kg. The reason we chose this was that no matter the mass, the total speed at the end of the ride remains the same. We conducted experiments to prove this theory. For comparison, when we used a 40kg car, the total speed at the end of the ride was 8.56m/s. This was the same when we used a 44kg car, a 50kg car, and a 60kg car. This proves that the mass of the car won't affect the speed, so any car would mass would work. The height of the initial drop impacts the PE because the higher the initial drop height, the more PE. That is why we chose 3.5m because it is the highest possible drop height that still provides a safe ride. and on each height on all of the hills, there was still enough PE to create a fun ride. Height also impacts KE because the higher the hill, the more KE will be created at the bottom of the hill because the car had a higher place to drop and travel from. Height impacts the total energy and speed of the roller coaster car because when a higher drop height is used on each hill, the speed at the end of the ride is increased. In a lab, we did when a drop height of 5m was used (we couldn't use it because it would be safe), the total speed at the end of the ride was 9.88m/s. When we used a drop height of 3.75, the speed at the end of the ride was 8.55m/s. This shows that the higher the drop height, the greater the speed at the end of the hill. The total energy is also increased because all of the PE and KE added up creates a greater total energy. The mass doesn't impact the PE or KE, like this response said earlier, and doesn't affect much at all. The relationship between KE and PE is that they can transform into one another. And because Energy cannot be created or destroyed, it means they convert to one another through Heat. This affects my ride because the more PE and KE I create in my ride, the higher the total energy. The total energy never changes throughout the whole ride, and according to the Law of Conservation of Energy, energy can't be created or destroyed. They equal the total energy because KE and PE have an inverse relationship. The Law of Conservation of Energy affected my design because knowing that energy cannot be created or destroyed helped me limit my options for initial drop heights, as well as hill heights. The relationship between hill height and initial drop height is inverse, because when I increase or decrease the initial drop height, it doesn't necessarily mean I will also increase/decrease the hill heights. The only situation where that would happen is if I made the initial drop height really low, I would need to make sure that the hill height wasn't larger than the initial drop height. The drop height and speed have a direct relationship, because when the drop height increases in size, the speed increases. When the drop height decreases in size, the speed slows down. Mass and speed have an inverse relationship because the mass of the car doesn't affect the speed. No matter what mass you use, the speed won't be affected.