Due to my experiments I have found that the best initial drop height would be 3.5 meters high. This is because anything over would be above the speed of 8.4 m/s which is too fast and could result in injury or death and anything lower could be considered boring. For example when you have an initial drop height of 3.5 meters the speed at the end of the ride was 8.26 m/s. When the initial drop was 5 meters the speed at the end of the ride was 9.88 m/s. We know that the hill height has to be lower than the initial drop so my recommendation for the hill height would be 3 meters because it is lower than the initial drop but is still tall enough to make it around the loop. For fun I would also recommend another small hill at the end that does can be in between 1 and 2 meters high just to add a little more fun. When deciding on mass you can pick however many kilograms you want. Mass does not effect the speed so anything will work (40kg - 60kg). For example a cart that has a mass of 40kg had a speed of 8.26 m/s at the end of the ride. A 60kg cart had a speed of 8.26 m/s at the end of the ride as well so we can see that mass does not change the speed of the ride.

Height does impact the potential energy and kinetic energy. Height impacts potential energy first because the equation for finding potential energy is PE=M x H x G, H standing for height. This means that the larger the height is the more potential energy we will end up with. All the potential energy we start with at the top eventually gets converted to kinetic energy as the cart goes down the hill. Therefore more potential energy means there is more kinetic energy as well. If more height means more potential energy that also means that the total energy will increase because total energy is all energy's combine. Height also effects the speed of the cart. For example when the initial drop was 4 meters high the speed at the end of the ride was 8.83 m/s and when the initial drop was 5 meters high the speed at the end of the ride was 9.88 m/s. This shows that the higher up the ride is the more speed the cart will have. Mass does not have an effect on potential energy and kinetic energy because when you put the two equations to equal each other mass cancels out because mass is part of both equations. For example M x G x H = 0.5 x M x V^2 which would then get simplified to G x H = 0.5 x V^2 as you can see mass is not a factor anymore. Since mass does not have an effect on potential or kinetic energy the speed will not change from mass because speed comes from how much energy you have. Therefore if you have more kinetic energy you will have a higher speed. This can also go back to height. We know that the more height you have the more potential energy you have we also know the more potential energy you have the more kinetic energy you have. Kinetic energy is energy in motion which is speed so more kinetic energy = more speed. Mass does not play a part in this. 

The relationship between potential,  kinetic energy, and total energy is PE + KE = TE. This is because when finding a total energy you have to add up all energy that is being used for this roller coaster. A relationship between potential and kinetic energy is how they are transferred. For example on a roller coaster at the top of the hill you are gaining height and almost coming to a stop. The higher up you go the more stored energy you gain. As you go down a hill the potential energy converts to kinetic energy because the cart is gaining momentum and moving. This effects the roller coaster because if you have a lot of potential energy at the top most f not all of the energy will be transferred to kinetic energy making the ride speed up. This is because the more kinetic energy you have the faster you are moving.

The law of conservation of energy states that energy can not be created nor destroyed but it can be transferred. This law affects my design because as a cart moves down a hill potential energy is going to be transferred to kinetic energy and when a cart moves up a hill the kinetic energy is going to be transferred to potential energy. When friction is at play some energy will be transferred to thermal energy so when you add potential and kinetic energy at the end of the ride it might not equal the total energy. The energy that was "lost" was not destroyed it was just converted to a different type of energy.

