Hello Gonzales family today i'll be showing you a roller coaster that is a great combination of fun and thrill. To start our coaster we have picked our drop height to be 3.5 meters tall. We figured that this was the ideal drop height for the coaster. Because the more height the initial drop has the more energy the car is going to have as well. And with more energy for the car to use the more speed it will get to use throughout the ride. For example when dropped from 5 meters the total speed throughout the ride was a high of 9.88 m/s which was to high for your standards. But as we slowly went down to 3.5 meters our high speed for the ride was 8.3 m/s which was perfect. 
We also figured that just a drop was not going to be enough for you to consider this coaster, so we added loops and hills as well. The height of the loop and the hill were also important to think about. This is because if our loop or hill were larger than the initial drop it would not have enough energy to get over the loop or drop. Like if we use a 4 meter hill for a example, the total energy of this hill would be 2448 joules. And because we are in a non friction environment all of the potential energy that is being created by the drop will transfer into kinetic energy. But the total amount of kinetic energy will not equal the amount it takes to reach a hill higher than the initial drop. So the loop and the hill have to continue to be smaller than the last to be able to make it to the end of the coaster.
In addition our car mass was chosen to be 50 kilograms, because with more mass the more total energy it will have in the coaster. And with more energy due to our car mass there was almost no struggle getting to the end of the track. At one point we were considering speed as a variable to mass but as we look at the data we saw that no matter what mass we picked there was no difference in speed. For example a 45 and 50 kilogram car that fell from the same height had a speed of 8.5 m/s. No mass we took would change the speed, only the amount of gravity and the height of the initial drop could change it. 
The last thing we had to consider was the fun aspect of this ride. Because of the speed limit on this coaster we had to find the perfect height to drop it from which I said was 3.5 meters. And the energy that was created from this drop was 8.3 m/s, This speed was consistent throughout the entire ride so that it is fun for people to enjoy and your park and hopefully get them to come try again.