This is my final design for a roller coaster that not only ensures fun, but of course safety as well. The first proposal I would make is to have an initial drop height of 3.5 meters. A drop height of 5 meters gave us an unsafe speed of 9.89 m/s/s, and a drop height of 3.5 meters gave us a perfect fun and safe speed of 8.27 m/s/s. This height will also give us a good amount of potential energy, since increasing height also increases potential energy. This potential energy will be converted into kinetic energy throughout the ride, which is why having a higher potential energy will create a higher kinetic energy as well. My second suggestion is to have a mass of 50 kg. Since mass increases potential energy, that means that this mass of a cart will increase our potential energy, therefore increasing kinetic energy. Also, the mass of the cart will not effect the speed, which ensures the safety aspect. When keeping the initial drop height the same, a 45 kg cart had a sped of 8.56 m/s/s, and a 55 kg cart had a speed of 8.56 m/s/s. This shows that the cart will increase overall energy, while also maintaining a safe speed. After the initial drop, having a loop of 3 meters will give the ride a very fun aspect. The loop has to be smaller than the initial drop, due to the law of conservation of mass and total energy. The total energy of the roller coaster does not change throughout the ride because the law of conservation of energy tell us that energy cannot be created or destroyed. This is why I chose to have a height and mass that will give us a high amount of initial potential energy, since no new energy can be created throughout the ride. The total energy converts between potential energy and kinetic energy throughout the coaster. At the top of the drop, there is all potential energy, and at the bottom there is all kinetic energy. As the cart moves up the loop, the kinetic energy will convert into potential, and because there will not be total kinetic energy, the loop needs to be smaller than the drop in order for the cart to make it over. I also suggest having a hill of 2.5 meters after the loop. I choose this height for the same reason I chose the loop height; it has to be smaller than the prior loop in order to have enough kinetic energy to make it over. I believe this will make the best safe and fun roller coaster.