I would recommend a 3.5 m initial drop, a 2 m loop, a 1.5 m hill, and a 50 kg car mass. I would recommend a 3.5 m initial drop because that is the highest initial drop without exceeding the 8.4 m/s speed limit. Drop height and speed have a direct relationship. When the initial drop height increases, the speed also increases. In my trials, a 3.75 m drop height was just over the speed limit, at 8.56 m/s. At 3.5 m, I found that the speed was just under the limit at 8.27 m/s. The highest height is the best choice because we want the ride to be fun, while also staying safe, so our passengers do not get injured. As we discovered earlier, drop height also has a direct relationship with potential and kinetic energy. When the drop height increases, so do potential and kinetic energy. This is true because height is a variable in the formula for potential energy, and potential energy gets converted to kinetic energy as the car goes down the initial drop, meaning drop height and kinetic energy also have a direct relationship. Drop height also has a direct relationship with total energy, as we found in our earlier trials. When the drop height is increased, the amount of total energy in the system increases. Another suggestion I have is that the car mass be 50 kg. In our trials, we found that car mass has no relationship with speed. At 40 kg and a 3.5 m drop height, the speed was 8.27 m/s. The same result happened at 60 kg and a 3.5 m drop height, with 8.27 m/s of speed. This shows that car mass and speed have no relationship, meaning we can pick any car mass to stay under the speed limit. I chose 50 kg, as it is right in the middle and won't produce an extreme result. Car mass, however, does have a direct relationship with total energy, kinetic energy and potential energy. As we found in our earlier trials, when the car mass is increased, the amount of total energy in the system increases. This does not affect speed, however, so an average car mass will suffice. Finally, I chose a 2 m loop height and a 1.5 m hill height. I know that the car will reach the end of the ride with these hill heights because of the law of conservation of energy. The Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, just converted. As the car moves down the track, the potential energy is converted into kinetic energy. At the bottom of the drop, the car has no potential energy, and has an amount of kinetic energy equal to the amount of potential energy the car had at the top of the initial drop. Because of the law of conservation of energy, the total energy within the system will remain the same at any given point during the ride, because energy is being transferred back and forth, but no energy is lost or gained. So, as long as the loop is shorter than the initial drop, the kinetic energy at the bottom will be more than enough to carry the car through the loop. The same principle applies to the hill. Since 1.5 m is less than 2 m, the car will make it over the hill and safely finish to the end of the ride.