My team did many experiments to find the best initial drop height, hill height, loop height, bank height, and car mass to make your roller coaster as exciting and safe as possible. We chose 3.5 m as our initial drop height to make the ride exciting but also safe. For example, when the initial drop height was 3 m, the potential energy at the top of the initial drop was 1466 J. However, when the initial drop height was 5 m, the potential energy was 2443 J at the top of the initial drop. A similar thing happens to the kinetic energy at the bottom of the initial drop. When the release height was 3 m, the kinetic energy at the bottom was 1465 J, while when the release height was 5 m, the kinetic energy at the bottom was 2442 J. The same thing happened to total energy- since the car isn't moving at the top of the ride, it has no kinetic energy, so the potential energy is equal to the total energy. The total energy was much greater when the initial drop height was 5 m versus 3 m, but that's not always good. 
We also studied how the initial drop height affected the speed and fun factor of the ride. Since drop height and speed are directly related, when the initial drop height increased, the speed increased. For example, when the drop height was 5 m, the highest speed the car reached was 9.89 m/s, but when the initial drop height was 4.5 m, the highest speed the car reached was a lower 9.37 m/s. The highest speed possible to make the ride safe is 8.4 m/s, and having an initial drop height of 5 m was not safe. We decreased our initial drop height to 3.5 m to make the ride safer and the highest speed under 8.4 m/s.
The best hill height to go along with our initial drop height of 3.5 m would be 3 m. If the height of the hill is equal to or greater than the height of the initial drop, the car will not continue to the end of the ride. For example, when the height of the initial drop (which in our experiments was 5 m) was equal to the hill height, the car did not make it to the end of the ride. But when the hill height was less than 5 m, the car reached the end. In order for the car to finish the ride, it has to have enough energy to make it over the hill, and a hill that is of equal or greater height to the initial drop height will not achieve that. The loop height would have to be less than the hill height if we apply this same reasoning, so our proposed loop height is 2.5 m. Then, to slow down the car so it can safely come to a stop, we put a 1 m bank, or the front half of a hill, at the end of the ride. 
For the mass of the car, my team decided on 60 kg. While mass does not affect speed, it does affect energy. The more mass something has, the more energy it will have by comparison. For example, when our car mass was 50 kg, the PE at the top of the initial drop was 2444 J. When the car mass was 60 kg, however, the PE at the top of the initial drop was 2933 J, which is significantly greater. We originally thought that mass would affect speed, but since it is in both the PE and the KE formula, mass can be canceled out when solving for velocity. When our car mass was 50 kg, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.85 m/s, and when we increased it to 60 kg, the speed at the bottom of the drop was still 8.85 m/s. The mass does not affect the speed in a frictionless environment, which is what we were doing experiments in. Having a mass of 60 kg will make the ride more exciting with more total energy, and therefore potential and kinetic energy.
As the car moves down the initial drop, the potential energy decreases, and the kinetic energy increases. This is not because energy is being created or destroyed, because the Law of Conservation of Energy says that is impossible. Instead, the total energy is transferred between PE and KE as the car moves through the ride. PE comes from height, so when the car is on the ground, it has no PE. KE comes from speed, so when the car isn't moving, it has no KE. The total energy always stays the same because it is the total amount of energy in the ride. 
The Law of Conservation of Mass also affects how the car moves through my proposed design idea. The car cannot go over a hill higher or equal to the initial drop because it can't create more energy. The hill height has to be less than the initial drop height, and the loop height has to be less than the hill height, otherwise, the car will not have enough energy to make it through the ride. 