Dear Gonzales Family,

I am going to build you a safe and fun roller coaster for your park. The initial drop will be 3 meters off of the ground, the loop will be 2.5 meters high at it's highest point, and the hill will be 2 meters tall. Based on all the expirence and trials that we have run, I can gaurentee that this roller coaster design in your best bet.

Our initial drop is the highest point of the track because that is the point that will have the most PE. You want the initial drop to be the highest point of the track so that the car has enough energy to get to the end of the track. The higher the roller coaster car is off the ground, the more PE it will have. The car has more PE at the highest point because the gravitational pull is the strongest. The reason that the height affects the PE is because when the car is dropped, the higher the car is off the ground, the more time it has to reach the ground. The higher the initial drop is, the more speed we will have because the more time that the car has to drop, the more speed it can gain due to gravity.  I can prove this with my trials. With an initial drop height of 5 meters, the highest speed was 8.88 m/s. Then with an initial drop height of 3, the highest speed at was 7.66 m/s. As the car is speeding down the track, the PE is transferred into KE which then is able to pull the cart upside down into the loop, and then up and down the hill. The total energy in a frictionless enviorment will stay the same throughout the coaster track.To get the total energy you have to add PE and KE together. 

Mass does not affect speed in a frictionless enviorment. I am able to prove this statement within my trials,  with a mass of 60 kg the speed at the end of the ride was 8.27 m/s. With another trial with the car's mass at 40 kg, the speed at the end of the ride was also 8.27 m/s. Thus shows that the mass does not affect the speed of the car going down the track in a frictionless enviorment. Mass does however affect PE which then affects KE. When running a trial with the car mass at 40 kg, the PE at the initial drop was 1567 joules. By the end of the trial, all of that PE had transferred into KE. With a car of the mass of 50 kg was run, the PE at the initial drop was 1956 joules. Those 1956 joules were transferred into KE by the end of the track. These trials prove that the Mass affects potential and kinetic energy but not speed. The total energy could be calculated at any point of the ride by adding PE and KE together. 

The initial drop is the highest point of the track, which is when the car houses the most energy (PE). As the car desends down the track, the PE is transferred into KE, however it is not lost. When calculating the total energy, all you have to do is add the PE and the KE together. You can calculate the total energy at any point in your trials and it will always equal the same number of joules when in a frictionless enviorment. The energy transfer is important because that is how the car gets up and over the hills and through the loop.

The law of Conservation of Energy has an affect on my design because it shows the relationship of energy transfer. The law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. This is showed throughout the trials because the TE remains the same, as there is  no friction. 

With everything that I have learned from these trials I was able to come to a conclusion. In short, I picked the initial height of 3 meters because that way the car has enough space to gain speed and make it up and over the loop, to the hill and finally to the end. The height of the loop and hill need to be smaller than the previous "event" so that there is enough KE to carry the car over the track. That leads into why the loop is 2.5 meters tall, this is because it is shorter than the initial drop to insure that the car can make it over. Then again it's not short enough to impact the hill. The hill is 2 meters tall because it would be shorter than the initial drop as well as the loop. Then to end ride, there should be a flat surface to insure that there is a safe place for the people riding to exit the attraction.