My ID height is going to be 3.5. I chose this height because it does not exceed the maximum speed for the speed constraints, and also meets the requirement of the minimum speed. The ID height relates to the PE and KE at the bottom because the more height there is, the more TE there is. This means that the taller or shorter the track is, the greater or less the total energy. For example, when my roller coaster track was at a height of 5 m, the TE was 2443 J. When my track height was at 2, the TE was 1231 J. At any point on the track, the sum of the PE and KE always equals the TE. This is because the way you find total energy is to add up all of the energy present on the rollercoaster, which could be PE, KE, or thermal energy. 

When the track is higher in elevation, the PE is greater because height is one of the components of PE. When my roller coaster track was at 5, the PE was 1446 J at the top of the ID. Likewise, the KE is greater at lower elevations because of the PE changing states. This conversion of energy is proven by the Law of Conservation of Energy, which states that energy cannot be created nor destroyed, but can be converted from one form of energy to another. The height of the hill also cannot be higher than the height of the ID, because the PE needs height to become greater, so if there isn’t enough PE to get over the hill, and to the end of the ride. This restricts the height of the ID as well, because if the energy from the hill ever reaches levels over 8.4 m/s, then the ride wouldn’t be safe. But if the hill height isn’t high enough, then the ride wouldn’t be very fun or exciting. When my hill height was 3.5, the same height as my ID, the car did not go over and got stuck at the bottom of the ID.

The car mass does not affect the ride, or TE because if all cars are dropped from the same height, the PE, KE, and TE will be the same. This is because car mass or just mass in general is not used to calculate the PE or KE. When the mass of my car was at 40 kg, the speed at the end of the ride was 8.84 m/s, and when the mass of my car was 60 kg, the speed at the end of the ride was the same at 8.84 m/s. For this reason, I will just have my car’s mass at 50 kg. 

The reason why I will not be going any higher than 3.5 m is that if I went any lower than that, the ride would have speeds of 7.65 m/s as my top speed, and my lowest speed would be 4.45 m/s which does not reach the minimum speed for entertainment purposes. If I went any higher than 3.5 m the top speed would be 8.84, and the lower speeds would be 6.45 which would be ok because it reaches the minimum speed but doesn’t go over the minimum speed. I chose 3.5 m because the top height it reaches is 8.26 m/s which is just under the maximum speed that is safe. The lowest speed it reaches is 5.41 which is under the limit for fun, but this is the lowest we can go without exceeding the top speeds for safety.