Dear Gonzales family,
              I have learned a lot about height, energy, and speed. So, I will share with you what I learned about PE, KE, ID height, TE, hill height, the Law of Conservation of Energy, and the mass of the car. I will tell you how this affects the safety, and enjoyment of my ride while using the data I have picked up from our experiments. What my company has come up with for the ID height is 3.25m while what we chose for the hill height was 3.00m. What we have decided for the car mass is 48kg and for the loop height 2.75. 
              Why I chose my ID height is because the relationship between PE, KE, and TE states that the higher the ID height the more the PE at the top and KE at the bottom. This is proven by the data saying that when the ID had a height of 2m the PE at the top of the ID and the KE at the end of the ride was 977J. While, when we increased the ID height to 2.25 the KE at the end of the ride and the PE at the top of the ID were 1099J, significantly increased. Another piece of evidence is to the extent that when the ID height was 3.25m the PE and KE at various times were 1588J but when the ID was decreased to 2.5m the KE and PE were also decreased all the way down to 1222J. Lastly, when the KE and PE were at the end and the top of the ID they had 1344J they were at an ID height of 2.75. Meanwhile when I increased the ID height once again, to 3.00m ending up with more PE and KE a the top and the bottom of the ID ending up with 1466J.
              So, the higher the ID the more PE and KE to make it through the ride. The higher the ID height the more the speed. There is a maximum ID height since there is a limit in the speed at which it turns unsafe. The maximum in speed is 8.4m/s and the minimum speed so that the rollercoaster is still fun is 6.7m/s. With an ID of 3.25m the speed at the bottom of the ID is 7.97m/s. With an ID of 3.5m the speed at the bottom of the ID is 8.27m/s.With an ID of 3.75m the speed at the bottom of the ID is 8.56m/s. The speed of my rollercoaster is 7.97m/s which is proven to be true by the data my company has come up with.  
              The law of conservation of energy states that energy can not be created or destroyed, but can be transformed from one form to another and that in a closed system, total energy is always the same. How I have enough TE, PE, and KE to get to the end of the ride is to make your hills or loops all shorter than the one before. An example of this is when I had my hill height be 3.00m considerably smaller than my ID height which was 3.25 and so my cart can make it over my hill and to the end of the ride. Another example of how this would not work is when I make my hill height higher than my ID height. If my hill height is 4.00m while my ID height is 3.25m, the cart cannot make it to the end of the ride because the KE turned into PE before the cart could make it to the top of the hill proving that I’m correct. Lastly, when my hill height was 2.00m while my ID height was 3.25 making it so the cart could go over the hill because the hill height was smaller than the ID height. 
              The larger the mass of the car, the higher the PE at the top and KE at the bottom(of the ID) basically the more TE. A piece of data is that when the car mass was 45kg the TE was 1547j. Another piece of data is when the car mass was 50kg the TE was 1719j which is significantly increased. Lastly, when the car mass was 60kg the TE was 2054j, which proves that increasing car mass equals increasing TE.
              Car mass does not affect speed because in the equation of speed, mass is in both PE and KE canceling each other out which is proved true by the following data. All pieces of data tell that when the car mass was 45kg, 50kg, and 55kg, they all equaled the speed of 7.97m/s at the end of the ride.
              This is what I have learned that my company based our calculations on our ID height which is 3.25m and our hill height which is 3.00m. Lastly, the car mass will be 48kg and a loop height of 2.75m. As explained before, why my company’s attractions on the roller coaster, later on, are smaller or shorter than the attractions on our roller coaster previously is because we need the cart to have enough TE and KE to get to the top of the attractions. Also, having an ID height of 3.25m makes a speed of 7.97m/s which is safe but also guaranteed to be very fun and full of enjoyment for the people that would ride it.

Sincerely,
Your engineers
