       Rollercoaster Essay #2
Dear Gonzales family,

After looking at my data my team and I have decided that these numbers for the rollercoaster are the most useful. The drop height(the ID) of my rollercoaster is 3.50m. This is because when I first tested my design the ID was 3.75 which made the speed over 8.4m/s and that might be fun but it is not safe. So when I adjusted my ID it was both fun and safe. When I was official about my ID I started taking my data and I noticed that on trail #1 the PE at the top was 1711j and the KE at the bottom was 1711j. That is cause the PE is converted into KE. The PE at the top and the KE at the bottom and lastly the TE anywhere on the ride is always the same. The TE never changes throughout the ride the KE and PE also do but they are always being converted 
Into each other.

When we were doing our research we had to try different heights for our hill so that if the hill is so big it will be over the speed requirement which will be unsafe. But if it is too low it will not successfully make it over the hill so you have to find the in-between. So for the hill height, the perfect height would be 2.75m so the car would not go fast but not too slow. 

When the car is on top of the hill the PE is full like for example 1843j. And when it goes down the hill the PE is converted into KE so by the time the car is at the bottom of the hill the PE will know be 0j. And the KE will know be 1843j. PE is stored energy which means when the car is stationary but when the car is going down the hill the KE is being applied to the car. KE is energy that will be created when the car is put in motion. We the car gets to the top of the hill the PE and KE with both have energy the PE will have more increased but the KE will still have some. All of this is happening because of the law of Conservation of Energy which states that energy can neither be created nor destroyed - only converted from one form of energy to another.

In conclusion that is why i chose my numbers for my rollercoaster I hope the Gonzales family has an idea for a rollercoaster in the amusement park.