Dear Gonzales family, 
	I have finished the roller coaster design and am excited to share it with you. I believe the initial drop height should be 3.61m, and also believe the loop should be 3.16m, I would also like to mention that I believe the hill height for the roller coaster should be 2.92m. The car mass will also be 40kg. With all of these heights and the mass of the car the maximum speed will be 8.40 m/s, this is making it a safe and fun ride for all passengers. 

	I have the initial drop height being 3.61m, or 10.83 feet, with this as the height the maximum speed would be 8.40m/s, so it is in the safety restrictions and a fun speed.  I had originally a drop height of 2.5m, and the PE at the top of the initial drop height was then 981j, and at the bottom of the initial drop height the KE was 981j. With this as the initial drop height the PE is so low the ride would not be very fast and also not very fun.  At the top of the initial drop that has been finalized to 3.61m, along with increased since the original initial drop height the PE is 1411j and at the bottom of the initial drop the PE converts its energy to the KE and the KE then has 1411j. The TE for the initial drop height is 1411j. With this as the initial drop height the ride would be going at fast pace while being safe. If we increased the energy from what is decided to 4.50m then the PE at the top of the initial drop would then be 1759j and at the bottom of the initial drop height the PE would have converted all of its energy to KE and then KE would then have 1759j. With this as the initial drop height the speed would be too fast for safety restrictions  When the car is going down the hill the PE is converting its energy into the KE energies. This occurs because of the law of conservation energy stating that energy cannot be created nor destroyed but… it can convert from one type of energy to another. In this situation this is an example of the law of conservation of energy when the PE converts its energy into KE energies because the energy cannot be destroyed.  So with a higher PE or TE you then have a higher speed and we found the highest speed we could go without breaking restrictions. This also shows that a higher height results in a higher speed along with a higher PE or TE. This just shows that every part of the initial drop height has been thought out in many ways to make the rollercoaster both safe and fun. 

	The hill height being 2.92m or 8.76 feet. This is because with this height it then has a PE of 1146j with this being the PE then we have a speed of 5.54m/s at the top of the hill. If we decrease the height of the hill to 2.15m the PE at the top of the hill would then be 832j and the speed would then be 6.81m/s. If we increased the hill height to be 3.90m the PE at the top of the hill would be 1531j and the speed at the top of the hill would be 3.40m/s. We could also increase the hill height to be higher than the initial drop height or the same height as the initial drop height but the car would not be able to go over the hill. So if we increase the hill height the roller coaster would go slower and would be less fun but, if we decreased the hill height to 2.15m it would speed up and this is not how I would like the roller coaster to go and I don't think  you want the roller coaster to go in this direction either. The lower hill being faster occurs because since it is lower to the ground it has all of its PE and since the higher hills don’t they may be faster at the top of the hill but not going down. So this just shows how much thought has gone into the roller coaster in many ways.

	The loop height of the roller coaster should be 3.16m or 9.48 feet. This is because if we decrease or increase the loop height it would then have negative results on the rollercoaster. To show how it would have negative results I will give you examples from my data. Such as if we decreased the loop height to 2.50m we would then get a PE of 863j at the top of the loop and a speed of 6.70m/s. If we then decided to increase the loop height to 3.50m the PE at the top of the loop would then be 1332j and the speed would then be 4.63m/s. So with the loop height that I chose for the roller coaster of 3.16m would have a PE at the top of the loop of 1230j and the speed would be 5.15m/s. So you can now see why the loop height needs to be 3.16m.
	I believe that the car mass should be 40kg because of the data and trials I did.
One example of why the car mass should be 40 kg is because with a lower mass there is then a higher speed at the top of the hill. I know this because during my first trail with a mass of 42kg I then had a speed rate of 5m/s at the top of the hill. Then with a car mass of 50kg in my second trial I then had a speed rate of 4.60m/s. Coincidence I think not. Now onto my third piece of evidence on why the car mass should be 40kg. From my third trial with a car mass of 54kg the rate of speed at the top of the hill would then be 4.39m/s. With all of this data it shows that with more mass there is then less speed. This occurs because with more mass there is also more gravitational force going on and with more gravitational force it slows down the object or in this case the car. So this is why the mass should be 40kg.

	So in conclusion this is why the initial drop height should be 3.61m, the loop should be 3.16m,the hill height for the roller coaster should be 2.92m, and the car mass 40kg. I have stated all of the reasons and data to justify my measurements and this is the one that has fit best for your requirements and that states.

-Kennedy Kahl
	