Dear Gonzales family, the initial drop height of my roller coaster design is 3.5 meters. This is because I found that when the height of the initial drop increases, the potential energy at the top, and kinetic energy at the bottom increase. For example, when I tested the drop height of 3 meters, the potential energy at the top was 1466J, and the kinetic energy at the bottom was 1466J. When I increased the drop height to 3.5 meters, the potential energy at the top increased to 1714J, and the kinetic energy at the bottom increased to 1714J. 

The total energy was also 1714J. This is because if you add the potential energy and kinetic energy at any point on the track you will always get the total energy. This data is relevant because the law of conservation of energy states that energy is neither created nor destroyed. For example, when the cart is going down the hill, the potential energy is converted to kinetic energy. My data up above shows that at the top, the potential energy is 1466J, and at the bottom, the kinetic energy is 1466J. In the direct middle of the hill, the potential energy and kinetic energy are both 733J.

The hill height of my roller coaster design is 3 meters. This is because I found that when the height of the hill is higher than the height of the initial drop, the cart can’t make it to the end. For example, My initial drop height was 3.5 meters. When I tested the hill height of 4 meters, the cart couldn’t make it to the end. When I decreased the hill height to 3 meters, the cart was able to make it to the end.

The mass of my roller coaster design was 50kg. This is because I found that when the mass of the car increased, the potential energy at the top increased, and the kinetic energy at the bottom increased. For example, when the car mass was 40kg, the potential energy at the top was 1371J, and the kinetic energy at the bottom was 1371J. When I increased the mass of the cart to 50kg, the potential energy at the top was 1714J, and the kinetic energy at the bottom was 1714J.

I have found that the drop height can increase speed. This is because the gravitational force is pulling down on the cart making the cart speed up because gravity x height = 1/2 x velocity squared. The cart speeds up because the gravity increases giving it more velocity. For example, when the drop height was 3.5, the speed at the bottom of the initial drop was 8.17m/s. When we increased the initial drop height to 5m, the speed at the bottom of the initial drop was 9.89m/s.

When I was testing to see if the cart mass could change the speed, I saw in the data that the cart mass does not increase the speed of the cart. I know this because the formula for finding velocity/speed is gravity x height = 1/2 x velocity squared which does not involve mass at all. For example, when the cart mass was 40kg, the speed at the bottom of the initial drop was 8.27m/s. When we increased the cart mass to 60kg, the speed at the bottom of the hill stayed at 8.27m/s. The cart mass does increase the potential energy and kinetic energy as well. 
