We decided to pick 3.35m for the initial drop height. We decided to pick it because it isn´t too high or too low, it also is high enough for a hill to be a good height. At the bottom of our Initial Drop, the KE is 1342 and the PE at the top of the Initial Drop is 1638. We chose 2.75m as our hill height so the cart can make it over the hill. When the car is going down the hill the KE and PE change into different numbers, but if you add them together it equals the TE which is 1713. We chose to make the Initial Drop higher than the Hill Height. The car wouldn´t make it over the hill if the Initial Drop were lower than the Hill Height so the cart wouldn't have enough energy to make it up. The Total energy is the PE and the KE added up together in the middle of the hill. The TE is how much energy the roller coaster has in general. The KE is higher than zero at the bottom of the drop. The PE is higher than zero at the top of the hill.

The total energy is everywhere on the roller coaster. When you are in the middle of a slope the total energy will be KE + PE. At the top of the coaster the PE and the PE is connected to TE. On the bottom of a drop, the KE is shown and the PE is what the KE is. If you are in the middle of a hill the PE and the KE will be shown together and the TE will be higher than both KE and PE. When you add KE and PE in the middle of a hill it will equal the TE. The law of conservation states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. So when there is energy on the coaster it cannot be destroyed. Say the total energy is 521 at the end of the ride that energy was not created and it cant be destroyed.

We chose a hill height of 2.75m. We needed it to be lower than the initial drop so the cart can make it over the hill. The PE at the top of the hill is 1350. The KE at the top of the hill height is 362J. The TE at the top of the Hill is 1713J. The cart will make it to the end of the coaster with a Hill Height of 2.75m.

We chose a car mass of 55kg. We chose this car mass because it won't be challenging to make it to the end of the rider's ride of the coaster. It also wouldn´t draw much attention to your park. 


When you increase the Initial Drop Height the speed increases. When the ID height was 2.75m, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 7.33m/s. We increased the ID height to 3.5m, and the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.27m/s. The height on trial 3 was 4.25m, and the speed at the bottom of the drop was 9.11m/s. Therefore proving that when you change the ID height the speed increases. The speed at the bottom of the drop and the end of the ride are the same. When the speed was 7.33m/s at the bottom of the drop. The speed was 7.33 at the end of the ride. When the speed was 8.27 at the bottom of the drop, the speed was 8.26 at the end of the ride. When the speed was 9.11 at the bottom of the drop, the speed at the end of the ride was 9.22.

The mass of the car doesn’t change the speed. The mass of the car in trial 1 was 40kg, and the speed was 8.56 at the bottom of the drop. When the mass of the car was 48kg in trial 2 the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.56. The mass was 54kg in trial 4 and the speed was 8.56. Showing that the mass of the car doesn’t affect the speed of the coaster. The speed at the bottom of the drop and the end of the ride are the same with 8.56m/s in all 4 trials. The speed at the top of the hill stayed at 4.93m/s in all four trials.

We chose the mass of the car as 55kg. We chose the ID height to be 3.35m. We also chose the HH to be 2.75m. We chose these numbers because they are safe and they are gonna make the coaster fun! The coaster. When the car mass was at 55kg, the cart made it to the rollercoaster's end. When the mass of the cart was higher it made it to the end of the rollercoaster but it didn't go as fast. So it wouldn't be as fun for the riders. 
