Rollercoaster Essay #2
Dear Gonzales family,
The drop height of my rollercoaster design is 3.70 meters tall. In my evidence, it shows when the drop height increases the PE, KE, TE, and speed of the car. My first piece of evidence is in trial 1 when the height was 2.5 meters tall and the PE/KE thought the ride always added up to 1222 as the TE, and the speed was only 6.99m/s. My second piece of evidence is from my last trial, the height was 5 meters tall, the PE/KE thought the ride always added up to 2443J as the total energy, and the speed was 9.88m/s. In my trials, it shows when you increased the drop height the PE, KE, TE, and speed also increase with it.
The Hill height of my rollercoaster design is 3 meters tall. My reason is, a tall hill but it isn’t taller than the drop because if the hill is taller than the drop the car won’t have enough PE, KE, TE, and speed to make it over the hill to finish the ride. My first piece of evidence is in trial 1, the height of the drop was 3 meters tall and the hill was 2 meters tall and the speed was 7.65m/s and there was enough PE to convert into KE to make it over the hill. But in trial 5, the drop height was 3.5 meters tall and the hill was taller than the drop at 5 meters tall and the speed at the bottom of the drop was 9.88m/s and there was not enough TE (PE and KE) to make it over the hill and reach the end of the ride. In my evidence, it shows when the hill height is greater than the drop height the car won’t make it over the hill.
The car mass of my rollercoaster design is 50 kg. In my evidence, it shows when you increased mass the speed stays the same. My evidence is in trial 1, the mass was 40 kg and the speed thought the ride was 7.66m/s. In my last trial, the mass was 60kg and the speed thought the ride was also 7.66m/s. That’s why the mass of the car should be 50 kg because the mass doesn’t affect the speed of the car.
Through the letter I showed you why the drop height should be 3.7 meters tall, the hill height should be 3 meters tall, and the car mass at 50 kg.

