					     Essay 1
					  By: Oskar Jasti

Dear, Gonzlas Family

Introduction
I and my company have a proposal for how the roller coaster is built. We think the design will be fun, exciting, and fast. I will be making the Initial Drop 3.58 meters, the hill height will be 2.5 meters, the loop height will be 2 meters, and the car mass will be 50 kg because it will be giving us the most speed and the most fun possible.

Initial Drop Height
For example, when I tested the drop height of 2 meters, the PE was 977 Joules. When I increased the drop height to 3.5 meters, the PE increased to 1710 Joules. When I increased the drop height to 5 meters, The PE increased to 2443 Joules. That is why I think the drop height should be 5 meters for my ride.

Hill Height
When I made the hill height 2 meters the PE at the top of the hill was 982 Joules and the car did make it to the end. When I increased the hill height to 2.5 meters the PE at the top of the hill increased to 1128 Joules and yes it did make it to the end of the track. When I increased the hill height to 3 the Pe at the top of the hill increased to 1470 Joules and yes it did make it to the end of the track. That is why I think the 3 is the best hill height for my ride.

Car Mass
When I made the car mass 40 kg the PE was 978 Joules at the top of the hill. When I increased the car mass to 50 kg the PE increased to 1218 Joules at the top of the hill. When I increased the mass one last time to 60 kg the PE increased to 1468 Joules at the top of the hill.

Things You Should Know
PE stands for potential energy. KE stands for kinetic energy. Last but not least TE stands for total energy. The relationship between PE, KE, and TE is PE+KE=TE. Let's talk about Total Energy. Total Energy is the energy of potential energy and kinetic energy combined. The total energy is the way that we can measure if something is safe. The higher the car mass the higher energy. The same thing can be said about Initial Drop. But it is not the same as Hill height because if the hill height is too high the car will not make it to the end of the ride. That would be a big problem if that happened. The Law of conservation says that energy can not be created or destroyed but it can be converted into a different form. We see this play in the car going down the drop and all of the energy from potential energy gets converted to kinetic energy by the bottom of the drop. Then when the car goes up the hill the energy starts to convert back to potential energy and converts back into kinetic energy at the bottom of the hill. The same thing happens when the car goes up the loop the energy concerts then turns beach after the loop.

Speed
Drop height does affect speed to be a safe and exciting ride; the speed needs to be in between the range of 6.7 m/s and 8.4 m/s. My ride speed is 8.37 m/s the fastest a ride can be but also safe. The equation for speed is distance divided by time. So it makes sense why Drop height affects speed because the higher the drop the more speed. I know that it is like this because when the drop was 2.5meter the max speed of the ride was 6.99 m/s. When the drop height was 4 meters the max speed of the ride was 8.84 m/s. When the drop height was 5 meters the max speed of the ride was 9.88 m/s. Now let's talk about mass. Mass does not affect speed because it has nothing to do with speed. I know this because when the mass was 40g the max speed of the ride was 7.66 m/s. When the car mass was 46g the max speed of the ride was 7.66 m/s. When the car mass was 60g the max speed of the ride was 7.66 m/s.  The only thing that mass affects is the energies like PE, KE, and TE. So having a large mass will not affect the speed of my ride and because of that, I made the mass of the car 40g.

Conclusion
I have found some great heights for the roller coaster to keep it fun and fast but safe. I have given you data from my trials of Initial Drop, Hill Height, and Car mass. I also gave you some stuff you should know about the roller coaster and the words and phrases I use. I also tested the roller coaster with friction. I hope my numbers and data were a guide to where we are in the process of making the roller coaster. Talk to you soon Gonzalas Family.

From, Oskar Jasti
