Dear Gonzales family,

We recently discussed what we were going to do about the rollercoaster that you tasked us to build. We reviewed what your thoughts were about the matter and we adjusted our requirements to fit your liking of the ride being a speed of 6.7 m/s-8.4 m/s. We ran a few new tests that could help us determine how we would get the speed you wanted. We decided that our measurements are an Initial drop height of 3.00 meters, a hill height of 2.50 meters, and a car mass of 50 kg. 
The initial drop height was 3.00 meters because we found that the height of the initial drop has to give the cart enough potential energy to make its way over the hill. We will discuss how the initial drop and the height of the hill interact with each other later on. Potential energy is the energy an object has because of its position and before it is acted upon. As we let our cart drop the Potential energy starts to convert into kinetic energy which is the energy an object has because of its motion or after it is acted upon. When the car reaches the bottom of the hill all the once potential energy is transferred into kinetic energy. We got this information from running a  series of tests which we shall list now. The first test for the initial drop height started with a drop height of 2 meters.  We found that at the top of the drop, the potential energy was 977 jewels, and the kinetic energy of the same 977 jewels at the bottom was due to conversion. We also found out that the kinetic energy/ potential energy is equal to the total energy which is the same 977 jewels. In the second test we increased the initial drop height to 2.25 and this time the potential energy at the top was 1101 jewels and the same for the kinetic energy and the total energy. Also in the third trial with an initial drop height of 2.50 and this time, the potential energy at the top was 1222 jewels. Once again the kinetic energy and the total energy were the same as the potential energy which is 1222 jewels. This proves that the larger the height is for the initial drop the more potential energy at the top, kinetic energy at the bottom, and the total energy we will end up having. We also know that the kinetic energy at the top and the potential energy at the bottom will always be zero. Also, we know that Kinetic energy plus potential equals the total energy that the car has, when this is happening the car cannot gain energy or lose energy. This represents the law of conservation of energy.
        Our hill height was 2.50 meters. We decided this height because as I said before the hill height has to be greater than the initial drop height to make it over the hill. When the car starts its descent down the hill and the potential energy starts to convert into kinetic energy. However, when it reaches the start of the hill the kinetic energy starts to convert back into potential energy because its position is changing and position is what determines the potential energy of the car. Because my hill height is half of my initial drop height, the total energy would be half as well. It will also decrease when it is descending the other side of the hill. We also did tests for this as well. First, we had a hill height of 3 and an initial drop height of 3.50 which stays the same throughout all of this test. Our potential energy at the top of our initial drop was 1714j and the potential energy at the top of our hill was 1474j and a kinetic of 240j did make it up the hill. In test two though we had a hill height of 3.50 and a potential energy of 1714j at the top of the initial drop. Our potential energy at the top of the hill was 1710j and a kinetic of 5j and therefore did not make it up the hill. In test 3 the hill height was 3.50 and the potential energy was 1715j at the top of the initial drop. Our potential energy at the top of the hill was 1694j and a kinetic of 21j and therefore did not make it up the hill.  This proves that the hill height has to be smaller than the initial drop because of the amount of energy the object starts with.
        Our car mass is 50 kg. We thought that this would be a good mass because it makes your ride exciting but not too fast. This is due to the more mass an object has the faster it goes because of it weighing more. Say we have a car with a mass of 30kg it would make it over everything but it wouldn’t be as exciting or fast. If we had a car mass of around 60 kg it would be two times faster and therefore make it more of the thriller that you were hoping for. This was our last series of tests before contacting you. First, we have a car mass of 50kg and potential energy at the bottom and total energy of 1477j. While at the bottom the kinetic energy was at 1474j. In our second experiment, we had a car mass of 55 kg and potential energy at the bottom and total energy of 1619j. While at the bottom the kinetic energy was at 1616j. In our third experiment, we had a car mass of 60kg and potential energy at the bottom and total energy of 1760j. While at the bottom the kinetic energy was at 1756j.This proves that the higher the mass of the car equals the higher the kinetic energy and potential energy the car has and having more energy forces the car to move at a faster pace.
        Now we will cover some of the new tests that we constructed because of your feedback. We will be going in-depth about how mass can affect the ride and riders in many different ways.
        The initial drop height is once again 3.00 meters. We believe that this should be our target mass because we believe that the higher the initial drop, the higher the speed of the car. First, we tested how the drop height affects the speed of the car. In our first test, we had a drop height of 3.00 meters and a hill height of 2.50 meters which stays the same during this series of tests. Our speed at the bottom of the drop, and the speed at the bottom of the hill were both 7.65 m/s. Although we did have a different speed of 3.09 m/s at the top of the hill. In our second test, we had an initial drop height of 3.25 meters. The speed at the bottom of the drop and at the end of the ride were both 7.96 m/s. Once again the speed at the top of the hill was 3.80 m/s, and therefore again lower than the speed at the end of the ride and at the bottom of the hill. In test three we had a drop height of 3.50 meters, while at the bottom of the drop and at the end of the ride we got a speed of 8.27 m/s. Also at the top of the hill, we had a speed of 4.39 m/s. The following tests prove that the higher the initial drop height equals the higher amount of speed the car has. So we need to keep our initial drop height on the lower side to keep it close to your speed and fun requirements of 6.8 m/s-8.4 m/s.
        The mass is once again 50 kg. We think these would fit our design and your fun and safety requirements because we believe that our data shows that the mass has little to no effect on the speed of the car. In the first test, we had a drop height of 3.75 meters and a hill height of 2.75 meters for the entirety of these tests. Anyway, we had a starting mass of 40 kg, which led to a speed of 8.56 m/s for both the bottom of the drop and at the end of the ride. On the other hand, however, we had a speed at the top of the drop was 4.40 m/s. In our second test, we had a car mass of 45 kg and which led us to a speed of once again 8.56 m/s for both the bottom of the drop and at the end of the ride. Also, we got the same 4.40 m/s for the speed at the top of the hill. In test three we also got the same 8.56 m/s and 4.40 m/s for the three spots tested. This proves that the mass does not affect the speed of the car and how it moves.
        We do believe that these are great measurements to have because they make the speed in that perfect range of 6.8 m/s-8.4 m/s which are the numbers for your fun and safety criteria. We don’t want to go higher with our numbers because if we do we may make the ride too fast which can make the ride unsafe and we won’t go lower because the riders may get bored and you want this ride to be fun!
        In conclusion, the things that we discovered today using good old-fashioned science helped us find the perfect height, mass, and speed that we want/need it to be. Thanks again for choosing the rollercoaster.Inc to make your rollercoaster dream come true. Please let us know if any changes need to be made and if not, Contact us about when you would like to start the construction. Thanks again!

Sincerely,
                                     Rollercoaster.Inc
