Dear gonzalez family, 

Here is the data you requested,
The initial drop height should be 3.25m. This is because, When I tested the drop height of 2.50m, the potential energy was 1222 joules and the total energy was also 1222 joules. The speed was also 6.99m/s at the end of the ride which fits the safety (8.4m/s) and fun (6.7m.s) speed requirements. When I increased the height to 3.25m, the potential energy increased to 1588 joules as well as the total energy which was also 1588 joules. And the speed was 7.97m/s which fits the speed requirements as well. The kinetic energy also increased from 1222 joules (test 1) to 1588 joules (test 2). This shows us that when you increase the height, the energy and speed increases as well. We choose 3.25m for the height because this gives us enough potential energy to make it to the end of the roller coaster and gives us a speed that fits the speed requirements. The kinetic energy increases when the car moves down the drop but the potential energy decreases. This is showing the law of conservation of energy that states that ”‘Energy can not be created or destroyed but it can convert from one type of energy to another.” When the car rolls down the hill the Potential energy is converted to kinetic. That's why at the bottom of the hill the kinetic energy has the same number of joules that the potential energy has at the top. We chose this height because it gave us an initial drop that provides lots of speed. We also found that the total energy was the sum of potential and kinetic energy at any point on the track. For example in trial 2 the potential energy was 1200 joules and the kinetic energy was 388 joules. When you add those amounts together they equal 1588 joules which is the amount of total energy. 

	The hill height should be 2.75m this is because when I tested the hill height of 3.5m (drop height is also 3.5m) the potential energy was 1714 joules at the top of the hill then it slid down back to the top of the initial drop showing that it is too high and it doesn't make it to the end.  When I decreased the height to 2.75m the potential energy was 1350 joules at the top of the hill and the car rode smoothly to the end of the ride. This shows us that when you increase the hill height it must not be higher than the initial drop height otherwise the car will not successfully make it to the end.  We have chosen this height because it makes it to the end while still being safe and fun.

The car mass should be 50 kg this is because when I tested the mass of 60kg the potential energy and total energy were 1907 joules at the top of the initial drop. But as the car moved down the drop the speed at the bottom of the Initial drop was 7.97m/s which fits the safety requirement for speed (8.4m/s). I also tried the mass at 50kg and the potential energy was 1589 joules at the top of the initial drop as well as the total energy. The car's speed at the bottom of the initial drop was also 7.97m/s which fits inside the safety requirement speed of 8.4m/s and the fun speed requirement of 6.7m/s. This shows that mass does not affect speed because even though we changed the mass of the car the speed stayed the same. But mass does affect energy the more mass you have the more energy you have showing that the car with the largest mass with have the most energy to get to the end of the ride. 

That's it for now we will check back later
bye,
Rileigh Herfel and other group members     