Dear Gonzala family.
	In my last letter, me and my team thought that we had a good understanding of how high the height of the roller coaster parts should be. Well, now we have a better understanding and can make it better. We now think the height of the roller coaster's initial drop should be 3.25m. We think it should be this height because the higher the initial drop height is, the faster the roller coaster will go. To prove this, we have some data from when we were testing out the roller coaster. When the height was 3m it had a speed of 7.66, which is in the safety zone, and still fun and exciting. When the height increased to 3.5, the speed of the roller coaster increased as well. The speed of the roller coaster increased to 8.27, which is just below the limit of the safety zone, and way above the excitement zone. When the height increased to 5m, the roller coaster speed increased to 9.89, which is out of both zones and way too dangerous. We believe it should be 3.25m because 3m just isn't exciting enough, and 5m is too dangerous. The reason why it's not 3.5m is because it just brushes the line off to dangerous.  Another reason to prove this is that when the height of the roller coaster's initial drop increased, PE and KE increases as well, which makes the total energy increase as well. PE stands for potential energy, which stores energy inside an object. KE stands for kinetic energy, which is the energy an object has because of its motion. PE at the top is always a number and KE is always zero. During the ride, PE is slowly transferring energy to KE until KE has a number and PE is zero. Because of the law of conservation of energy, states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, but it can convert from one type of energy to another. This shows that you can not add more energy so that the height of the initial drop can increase and be in the safety zone.

	We believe the hill height should be 2m. To prove this, when the hill height was 2m, the PE at the top of the initial drop was 1715J and KE was zero. When the car was on top of the hill, PE was 973J and KE was 741J. The car was able to make it over the hill because it was smaller than the initial drop height, which was 3.5m. In another trial, the hill height was the same height as the initial drop height, 3.5m. PE at the top initial drop height was 1714J and KE was zero. When the car was on the top of the hill, PE was 1711J and KE was 3J. The car did not make it over the hill, that's why the PE and KE are not evenly split. PE did not transfer enough energy over to KE, that's why it unevenly split. On our last trial, we had the hill height was 4m and an initial drop height of 3.5m. PE at the top of the hill was 1715J and KE was zero. At the top of the hill, PE was 1613J and KE was 102J. The car did not make it over the hill. When the car is at the top of the hill, that's when the PE is transferring a lot of energy to KE, so that it can make it over the ride. It is physically impossible for the speed of the car to be in the excitement zone, but it's in the safety zone and safety is more important than fun.
	
	We believe that the mass of the car should be 54kg. We think this because the higher the mass, the more energy there is. To prove this, when the mass of the car was 50kg, the total energy was 1223J. At the top of the initial drop, the PE was 1223J and KE was zero. At the bottom of the drop, KE was 1223J and PE was zero. PE transferred all its energy when the car went to the bottom. To get the total energy, you add PE and KE together. That's why PE at the top is the same as the total energy. KE at the bottom is the same as the total energy as well. This is the same with all the trials. When mass increased to 54kg, the energy increased as well, with a total energy of 1320J. When the mass increased to 58kg, the total energy increased as well again, with a bigger total energy of 1419kg. When the mass is involved with speed, it doesn’t really matter because no matter what the mass is, the speed will still be the same.  To prove this, when the mass of the car was 50kg, the speed was 7.66. When the mass increased to 54kg, speed didn’t change, it stayed at 7.66. When mass went to the maximum number of 60kg, the speed was still 7.66.

	The loop should be 2m because then the car can make it over the loop. With all this information, you can see the right measurements for the perfect fun and safe roller coaster.
