Rollercoaster Essay #1


Dear Gonzales family, me and my engineering company at this time have decided what the best initial drop height, hill height, and car mass are.

The best initial drop height is three meters high. The reason I believe this is that when the initial height is high there is more potential energy and since energy can't be created or destroyed only change forms the potential will become kinetic. It will also have more time to gain speed. If the initial drop height is too small the car will not have enough speed to make it to the end of the ride. But also if it is to high it will be unsafe. Here are some of the data that I have gathered.  In my first trial, the initial drop height was 2m and the total energy was 782j.  Then in trial 2, the height was 3m and the total energy was 1174j  In my last trial when the hill height was 5m and the total energy was 1955j. So that covers the initial drop part of the coaster of course with only 0 friction. 

The best hill height will be 2 meters high. The reason I believe this is that if the hill height is any higher than the initial drop then it won't make it because there will not be enough total energy. Because according to my data when the hill height was 2 and the initial drop height was 3 the car made it. Also when the hill height was 2.50 and the initial drop height was still 3 the car struggled but made it. Finally, when the hill height was 3 the car tried but could not make it.

Finally, let's talk about car mass. If the car mass should be heavy but still aerodynamic so I think that 40 will work for mass. Because the heavier the car the more total energy there will be but it won't be aerodynamic so it needs to be smaller but not too small. Here is some of the data I found to solve this question. In my first trial when the car mass was 40g the potential energy was 1174j. In my second trial, the car mass was 45g and the total energy was 1330j. Then in my final trial when the car mass was 55g the potential energy was 1625j.
 
Also, we measured the speeds at different parts of the ride and found that at the bottom of the initial drop, the speed was 7.60 then at the top of the hill it was 4.41, and finally at the end it was 7.66. Since the height of the initial drop affects the speed and we can´t go under 6.7 and over 8.4 for speed in at least one place. this is what we must use. If you think I will skip the relationship between car mass and energy then you are wrong because we need it to be heavy enough to have enough total energy to make it to the end.

So I hope you take my data into consideration. I will report back with more data when I can for now enjoy.
 

                                                                                                         Sincerely  engineering team.


