Dear Gonzalaz Family,

 	I and my engineering team have come up with a design that will increase ratings and satisfaction and is safe the height of the initial drop should be 3.50M the hill height should be  3.00M and the car mass should be 45kg.
 	my team figured out that if the height of the ID is 3.50 it will have enough PE that will transfer over to KE and therefore will be enough to get over the hill and through the loop. In my teams trial #1 the height was 2.00M and the PE was 977J so we went up 1.00M in trial #2 and it was 1466J
So we went up .50M in trial #3 and it was 1710J and it was just enough PE to get through the entire ride.
	If my team went lower than 3.50M then the car would not make it through the ride the PE and KE are the reason the vehicle moves through the passage and if the height is lower so are TE and PE which would ruin the ride. When the vehicle moves down the hill the PE will convert into KE and the kinetic energy will be enough to make it through the hill.
If we can make the loop and hill a little bit shorter than the initial drop that the friction shouldn't be too much of a problem. it will keep the riders safe with this design it would be not too short and not too long of a ride and won't be dangerous for the riders at your park. 
My team noticed that the ID and hill height should be different from each other so that the PE can be converted to KE to make it over. In our trials, we noticed that 45kg of mass for the car will be perfect for the ID and PE contributed to PE with friction. we don't want the car to be too light or too heavy and 45kg is suitable in the middle and should go fast enough for it to be fun.
We won go higher than 3.50M for the ID because it could go too fast and risk safety if it's higher. And for the hill height if we go higher the friction will cause the car not to make it over with the ID.
If we go lower than 3.50 and lower for the hill height. it would be slower and not much fun and at the same 
time would be too fast and finish quicker than our design.
And if the car mass is lower the weight would affect the speed and fun of the ride.
When the car goes down the ID it would transmit whatever amount of joules (TE) into KE.
