Dear gonzales family,

My team and I have worked together and come up with some ideas on what to do for the roller coaster. Unfortunately, we were not able to have the hill height higher than the initial drop height, but we think we came up with some very good ideas that will please your customers and keep them coming. 
    As I said before, my team and I did some studies on the hill height being higher than the initial drop height. The reason why we could not do that is because it is not possible in our situation due to the friction and energy levels. 
     Let me break this down, let's say we did have the hill height be higher than the initial drop height. My team tested this happening twice, let me show you the data. The initial drop height was 3.5m and the hill height was 4m. As you can see, the hill height is higher than the drop height. When we tested this the cart did not make it over the hill. The reason the cart did not make it over is because it did not have enough energy.
    At the start of the roller coaster (the ID) however many joules of energy we have at the top of the ID is how much energy we have throughout the whole roller coaster. This happens because due to the law of conservation of energy, no energy is ever created or destroyed. Since the hill height is higher than the drop height you need more energy to get over it and no more energy is going to be created. 
     You and your family may be wondering what kinetic energy / potential energy are and why they matter. I am going to start with potential energy, potential energy is energy that is stored inside of an object because of its position. Kinetic energy is energy that is stored in an object because of its movement. They relate to each other because at the top of the initial drop when the cart is not moving all of the energy is potential energy because it is not moving. Then once the cart starts moving and going down the drop the energy starts to convert into kinetic energy because now it is moving. So, the kinetic and potential energy matter because on any point of the roller coaster when you add up them it ALWAYS equals the total energy. and the total energy matters because when we look at the total energy we can see if it will make it over hills, loops, turns, etc. 

What about the mass of the car? Now, my team and I don't worry about the mass too much because no matter what the mass is, it will never affect the speed. It will never affect the speed because the mass of the car will not change at any point and neither will the height of the hills making a change in velocity not possible. But it will in fact give us more energy the higher the mass. We found that 50kg is the best speed. The speed we do in fact pay attention because if the speed of the car at any point on the roller coaster goes over 8.4 m/s it is dangerous and if it is any lower than 6.3 m/s at any point of the coaster it is not considered “fun”. and will not want your customers to ride on the roller coaster 

Now that hopefully you understand everything and why it all matters I am going to show you our final idea for the roller coaster. We think 3.56m for the initial drop is the best height because it will start us off with 1742 joules of energy and put us at a top speed of 8.34m/s which is just under the criteria of 8.4m/s and will still make it amusing to your customers. Next, the hill height is going to be 3.25m because it is still a very big hill and we have just enough energy to get up and over the top of it. We decided the loop height should be 3m because again we have enough energy to get up and over it and it is still very high and fun. Lastly, the car mass is going to be 50kg because it is right in the middle and gives us just the right amount of energy to help us over the hills but not too much to make it dangerous.   
