Dear Gonzales family, my team and I have created a new fun, safe, and exciting roller coaster that will make it to the end, for those to enjoy. 


We believe that the potential energy (PE) of the initial drop height (ID) should be 3.50. The kinetic energy (KE) speed at the bottom of the roller coaster is 8.27, the speed at the top of the hill is 3.81, and lastly, the total energy (TE)  is 8.27. Now we will move on to the car mass. For this roller coaster, we think that the car mass should be 54g. The speed at the bottom of the drop is 8.27, the speed at the top of the hill is 3.10, and finally, the TE of the roller coaster is 8.27. We can now talk about the hill height of the roller coaster. Our team thinks that the hill height should be 3.00. The TE of that would still be 3.00. 

The law of conservation states that energy cannot be created nor can it be destroyed, but can always convert from one type of energy to another. 

The relationship between PE, KE, and TE is affecting the ride because PE refers to the stored energy an object has due to its position of state, while the KE refers to the energy of the rollercoaster's position due to its motion. When the PE is converted into the KE, the object is set in motion and can continue. When the rollercoaster is at the top of the hill it has PE due to its elevated position. When the coaster goes down the hill it's converting its PE into KE. 

The relation between KE and PE is that both forms of an object can possess. The KE is the energy on the rollercoaster that is processed by the car in motion, while the PE is the energy processed by an object due to its position or state. 

Lastly, I will talk a bit about the total energy. The TE gets larger at the end of the ride because of the increase in speed during the ride, as you accelerate, your PE decreases while your kinetic energy increases, resulting in a higher TE. If you are riding uphill you need to use more energy to overcome gravity and maintain your speed resulting in a higher TE. 



In conclusion, my team and I think that the ID height should be 3.50, the hill height should be 3.00, and the car mass should be 54g. This will create a rollercoaster that is fun, safe, and will make it to the end! 



Sincerely,


       

