Dear gonzales family, 

My company and I have come up with a proposal to make a roller coaster that we designed which is fun and safe for the riders. You wanted the hill height to be larger than the drop height, correct? My team and I decided that it wouldn't work/be safe because the TE wouldn't have enough energy to make it over the hill because of the small amount of speed left over. 

I started with having 5.00 meters tall for the ID, but then quickly noticed that the speed would not be safe for the riders which isn't good. The new and safer drop height of the roller coaster is 3.50 meters tall. This is because the roller coaster needs to be a fun and safe ride, and we made it as tall as possible, but still have enough speed to make it enjoyable. It provides everyone to have a great time. 

The drop height defines the amount of PE shown. PE is the amount of energy stored in something at rest.  At the top of the drop, the KE was zero; but at the bottom of the drop, the KE was 2,321 joules. So as you can see there is a clear difference between the top and the bottom amounts of KE and a clear difference between the two PE drops and how the drops change with just a .25 difference. 

Unlike KE and PE, the TE is the same throughout the whole entire ride. In this case, it stays at 2,446. This is because even though the KE and PE are moving, adding up the two, makes the TE. The law of conservation of energy says that within a closed system, energy can change its form, but it cannot be created or destroyed. This means that the TE is constant, also known as the same throughout the ride. So as you can see, the KE and PE added up always makes the TE, which never moves. 

Since we wanted the ride to be the most enjoyable possible, we made some hills, experimenting with a hill about 3.00 meters tall, and soon noticed that the only hill that would work is about 2.75 meters tall. The KE was the energy powering the 40 kg car up the hill because it skyrocketed to 2443J. Since the PE was at 0J,  it helped power the cart up the hill. Since the law of conservation says that  “The mass of any one element at the beginning of a reaction will equal the mass of that element at the end of the reaction, the creation can't be destroyed or created anymore.” it can show how the mass of the vehicle will never make the ride slow down at any point.

Since the ID is larger than the HH, it makes it more likely to be able to go over the hill. If the hill was bigger than the ID, it wouldn't go over because the KE didnt have enough power to go down the small ID. The large hill wouldn't have made enough power to go over it. Even if you change the mass of the car it still wouldn't be able to go over the larger hill. 

Also, the mass of the car will never affect the speed of the ride. This is because the speed will always stay the same which will be shown in my data. Since we just now decided to change our ID to 3,75m, it will slow the ride down (with or without the car mass changing) because our starting ID was 5.00 meters tall which means we are decreasing it. 

Since we changed our ID, we changed our HH. We changed the HH to 2.75, which will hopefully be fun for the riders. Our original car mass will be 50 kg, but obviously adding extra weight due to the people. Since we want the ride to be extra fun and enjoyable, we put a loop in! The loop will be 3.25 meters tall and will make it around with no problem. The loop will have the riders enjoy the ride even more and will hopefully want to come back on the ride next time!

So, as you can see I chose to make the ride most enjoyable and safe as can be. I hope you like my offer! 
