Essay #2
The drop height of my roller coaster design is 3.5 meters. This is because when height increases the energy does too. I know this because when I tested trial#1 the height(ID) was at 2.50 meters, and the Total energy was 1222J. In trial #2 The Total energy changed to 2443J. That's because I changed my height/ID to 5.00 meters. So that shows that the energy increased as well as the height. Whenever the height changes the energy changes as well. Therefore, when I tested another trial, I put the height to 2.5 meters, and the PE was 978J. When I increased the drop height to 3.5 meters, the PE increased to 1369J. 
	The height of the ride is 3.5 meters and the PE at the top is 1369J, at the bottom of the ID the KE is 1368J with a speed of 8.27m/s. That makes it safe for your riders because when you have a speed larger than 8.4m/s or a speed less than 6.7m/s it makes the ride have a larger speed than wanted(making it unsafe). We put the mass to 40 because we wanted to make the ride go quicker but when we realized that the mass has nothing to do with it. We were questioning what we were doing wrong, we realized that mass has nothing to do with speed so 40-60 mass didn´t matter. We added a loop so there would be more excitement so we put the height to 3.00 meters because if it was at 3.5 meters the ride wouldn't make it over because the ride's ID was at 3.5 so if the ride tried making it over something at the same height it wouldn't make it. As we also know, if gravity is being used it wouldn't make it around the loop. 
	PE and KE change when traveling(switching places) because at the top of the ride, PE is being used and KE isn´t but when we start heading downwards they both switch energy. Changing from PE taking over to KE taking over but then when we start heading uphill PE starts to take over. That's because when you head uphill KE isn't being used in any way (not heading downward). KE is only used when going down the hill or at the end of a hill. PE is only used when heading up a hill or on top of that hill they just went up.
That is some information on how I and my teammates found how to find what would be suitable for your family's ride. Hope that you guys have fun and enjoy the ride! 

