Dear Gonsallas, 

I’m going to go straight to the point and say I have created a roller coaster design that I think would be safe, fun, and affordable for your guyses budget. The drop height of the design I came up with is 3.00 meters. This is because of all of the potential energy which would be a lot. If I increased the height and it would make it unsafe for all of the riders to ride on, and that much force on a roller coaster would be too unsafe for riding on. And kinetic energy at the bottom would be the same way just not too bad and it would feel like your bottom is lifting off your set.  So anyways when potential energy goes down as you go down the hill the kinetic energy increases and then vice versa but when you go up the hill. So we have to have the initial drop higher than the hill cause otherwise the kinetic energy and the potential energy won’t have the right enough energy to make it over the hill. Next, we have to focus on the mass of the car. So for the mass of the car, it has to be in the middle it can’t be too heavy or it won’t make it over and not too light cause it will be unsafe for all of the riders to ride on. But also as you increase the mass the energy goes up with it. And we can’t have too much energy with it or it will go too fast. For one trial we used 4.26 joles and which was really fast and hard to stop and for one trial we used 1.50 joles and which was too slow and would not be fun for the riders to have fun on. With the knowledge of speed and mass, we have to think about the mass so the speed is not too fast which could make it unsafe for the riders. Everything has to be under 6.7 and 8.4m/s. In one of our trials, we tried we had a mass be 58 the speed was a little too much and made it unsafe for the customers to ride on. But our 1 trial had the same effects as the 2nd trial. Let us talk about the ID drop height and speed. When we and the drop height at 3.00 the speed was a good 7.63 which is a good number. And for the speed at the end of the ride was the same so I think for ID height we should do 3.00.
