Over the past two weeks, I have figured out a lot about how energy works, and I have some ideas. The drop height of my roller coaster design is 3.35 meters. This happens because the taller the initial drop, the more total energy, and speed. For example, when I tested a drop height of 2 meters, the PE was 977 joules. When I increased the height to 3.75 meters, the PE was increased to 1832 joules. When I raised the height, again, to 4.24 meters, the PE increased, to 2077 joules. I stuck with 3.35 because I can’t make the ID too high. If the ID is too high, the car will be too fast for the rest of the ride. When I tested 2.75m, the car went too slow. When I tested 3.5m, the car went too fast. heights under 3m went too slow, which let me know that it needed to be between 3m and 3.5m. The car can’t go slower than 6.7, and can’t go higher than 8.4.

 As the car’s speed increased, the PE at the top, KE at the bottom, and the KE increased. The PE and KE equal how much total energy there will be, and this changes our ride because the more energy, the faster you will go. The faster you go, the more likely you are to make it through the ride. The weight of the car does not affect the speed of the ride. This is because friction controls the speed, not the mass. I made the car mass 60kg because then it can carry more people. Energy cannot be created or destroyed but, it can be transformed into different forms. This is why the PE turns into KE faster or slower depending on your speed and mass when you ride down a hill.

The hill height of my rollercoaster design is 2.5 meters. This is because the hill height has to be lower than the initial drop, otherwise the car won’t make it over the hill. For example, when I tested a hill height of 2m, the car made it over easily, the KE was 1711 joules. When I tried 2.75m, the car made it over with a KE at the top of the hill being 363 joules. However, when I tried a hill height of 4.02 meters, the car couldn’t make it over the hill because it was taller than the initial drop. This shows that the hill height can’t be more than the initial drop. 

I won’t go higher than my initial drop, hill height, and car mass because otherwise, it won’t make it through the track or be safe. This is because if the ID is too short or too tall the speed might not fall between 6.7 and 8.4, making it unsafe. I refuse to change the car mass because, even though it doesn’t matter, the bigger the car, the more people can fit. I won’t change the hill height because of the speed thing and also because it has to be lower than the ID. 
