My teams roller coaster design will be exciting and make it to the end without stopping because it has many drops that are bigger than the loops. This will make the cart reach the end because the drop needs to be taller than the loops for the cart to make it all the way around. I know this because in my testing data, the lower the hill compared to the initial drop, the more total energy there is. This is because the cart doesn't need as much energy to go around these loops or hills when they're smaller vs when they're bigger, also giving it more total energy. It will also make it exciting because in the ride It'll go around loops and up hills faster giving it more of a thrill. I also believe this because of how fast my teams roller coaster will go.
 
Knowing that most people who go on roller coasters love the fast ones, we made ours fast. In the beginning, you go through a dark tunnel then unexpectedly have a huge drop giving you that adrenaline rush. This drop will give you lots of power to go up the hills and loops after that. I know this because the higher the initial drop the more total energy there is. The higher the drop means more PE at the top of the ride and more KE at the bottom. The PE and KE also is affected when the cart goes up and down our hills. Because one of our hills are smaller than the other, it is more likely for the cart to get to the end. But the higher the hill, the more PE and KE it has. There is less PE and KE when the hill is smaller. I know this because in my data I collected, My 5.00m hill had 2327 PE and 2 KE, meanwhile my 3.15m hill had 2324 PE and 777 KE. My 3.15m hill made it all the way meanwhile my 5.00m hill did not. This is because the initial height (4.75) did not have enough energy, nor was tall enough, to push the cart all the way up and down the hill. 

These different initial drops effect the PE, KE, and TE because the higher the drop the more PE and the lower the drop the less. This decreases the KE, and the KE and PE equal the TE which effects the full energy. These energies effect each other because the energies can NOT be created or destroyed. It transforms itself from one to the another and that is why the PE and KE effect the TE. The mass also effects the ride and energy because when the mass is greater, it has more energy and the lower the mass the less energy. I know this because in my data, the more the cart mass, the more PE it has which means the more KE it has. For example, one of my carts had the mass of 60 and had the PE of 2790 and the KE of 2772. This cart had more mass than my other cart which had the mass of 43 and had the PE of 1981 and KE of 1978. This shows that the more mass of the cart, the more energy which means the cart is faster and better.

In the ride, the higher the drop is, the more speed it is. This is important to know, because if the speed goes over 8.4 then it's dangerous and can cause accidents, headaches, vomiting, etc. I know the height affects the speed of the ride because in my trials I did, I took a drop height of 3.50m and got a speed of 8.2m/s. And in another trial, I did a drop height of 5.00m, and got a speed of 9.9m/s, which is VERY unsafe to ride and shows that the higher the drop height is, the more speed there is. I know my initial roller coaster is safe because I have a drop height of 3.58m, which gives me the total speed of 8.4m/s which is where exactly my speed should be for it to be safe.

And lastly, the mass of the car in my roller coaster does NOT affect the speed of it. This is important because you'll think that the bigger the cart, the stronger. The smaller, the weaker. But any mass you put it at, it stays the same! I know this stays the same, because in my trials, I did a car with the mass of 50kg, and the speed came out as 8.3m/s. And I also did a car of 40kg, and that speed came out as 8.3m/s as well. This shows that no matter the mass or weight of the car, the speed of the ride will stay the same. This shows that my roller coaster is good and safe because I have a car of 55m in my ride and a speed of 8.4m. This means that the mass, speed, and height will stay the same and will not change at all. This is why I believe you should choose my teams roller coaster. It is fast, safe, and has a bit of thrill.

