So today, I will be showing the Gonzales family how to make a good roller coaster that will save their theme park and attract more customers. So, you want a tall hill to start on preferably about 200-400 feet in the air if you want the ride to be fun. Or you can build up to this and have people ride an elevator or something like that. And your first drop should go down. And at the top of the drop, you will have the maximum potential energy you will ever have for the duration of the ride, and you will have 0 kinetic energy. And you will want to go pretty close to the ground on the first drop. At the bottom of the hill, you will have the most kinetic energy you will ever have for the duration of the ride, and you will have 0 potential energy. Then this next step is important. Because of the law of conservation of energy, that states energy cannot be created nor destroyed. So the height of the hill has to be shorter than the initial drop because there isn't enough energy to get the car over. And if they want the maximum energy, they should do a heavier car. because more mass=more energy. My evidence for this is my data that we did when we did roller coaster simulations. Because when we did an initial drop of 5 meters and a hill of 2 meters, the car got over the hill. And when I did an initial drop of 2 meters and a hill of 2.5 meters, it didn't go over. This was because the car didn't have enough kinetic energy to get over the hill. And kinetic energy + potential energy at any point in the ride will always equal total energy no matter what. And then they can keep repeating the process the same way until the car comes to a stop because it doesn't have enough kinetic energy. And this is how the Gonzales family could create a roller coaster to save their family's theme park, I am confident that this will be a fun roller coaster and it will be safe because there are only hills and no loops. And the higher the drop height the more speed your car will have, this is because more height=more energy=more speed. And also mass is not a factor of speed. It only matters the initial drop height. That is the only thing that affects speed. 

