       The science behind why my current roller coaster design will be exciting and will make it to the end of the ride without stopping. The science behind it is my car mass is as high as can be, the initial drop is as high as it can be, the hills are as high as they can be without being the same height or higher than the initial height. 
      The height of the initial drop needs to be an high as it can. This is because the higher the initial drop is the more PE it has at the top and the less KE at the top. This is also because the higher it is the less PE it has on the top and the more KE at the bottom. 
      The relationship between PE, KE, and total energy is PE plus KE equals TE, 1472 plus 972 equals 2446. It,  affects the ride because it has to be equal to be able to work.
      As the car moves down the hill the PE goes up and the KE goes down. for example the PE at the top was 2443 and at the bottom the PE was 0.
      The energy transformation is how the energy changes when it goes down a hill or if it is going straight. The law of conservation of energy is how much energy you need to go around the entire roller coaster without using your own energy. 
      The relationship between the initial drop height and the hill height is, the hill height can't be the same height or taller than the initial drop height to be able to make it over the hill. 
      The relation ship between mass, PE and KE is the bigger the mass the more PE you will have at the top of the initial drop. The bigger the mass is the more KE you will have at the bottom of the initial drop.
       The height of my initial drop is 3.50 m, the hill height is 3.25 m, and the loop height is 3.25 m, the mass of my car is 50 kg. 
       I decided the initial drop height to be 3.50 m because the speed was not over 8.4 m/s for safety and over 6.7 m/s for fun. I decided the hill height to be 3.25 m because it was high enough for it to be fun and low enough to get over the hill from the initial drop. I decided the loop height to be 3.25 m because it is the same as the hill height and made it through the loop.
   The mass did not affect the speed. The relationship between PE, KE and TE affects the ride because it starts with PE in the begging of the ride and then it transfers to KE at the end of the ride.