          Here is my roller coaster idea. It maximizes speed to 8.4 m/s by having a drop height of 3.57 meters tall, a hill that is 3.5 meters tall, a loop that is 2 meters tall, and a bank that is 1.54 meters tall. Here are the requirements that I had to meet. The speed cannot go above 8.4m/s at any time and the speed must at least reach 6.7 m/s at some point in the coaster. The drop height has to be higher than the hill, loop, and ending so the car can make it through the coaster. The mass has no effect on speed but it does have an effect on total energy so I put my car mass to 60kg for the most energy. Here is why those requirements are in place and why my coaster would surpass those requirements for the perfect fast fun and thrilling coaster.
           The higher you make the drop height the higher the energy is going to be the more fast and fun the rider will have. At 5 meters release height, the total energy is 2932, the energy is higher than 4 meters release height which is 2346 total energy.My drop height is as high as it can safely go so the riders will experience the most possible speed. The initial drop height needs to be higher than the hills so that the car can get over. Ke + Pe = Te. Because of newtons law of conservation of energy, energy cannot be created or destroyed in a closed system. You must ensure you have enough energy to get over the hills. If the Te at the start of the ride is 2000 and you need 2100j of Te you won't make it over the hill and you need more speed. One way to get a higher speed is to make the hill higher, a car at 4.25m height has 9.11 speed and a car at 3.61m height has 8.4 m/s speed. You have to be careful to not make the height too high so the speed will not be to high. The higher it is the faster it will go. In my coaster, the initial drop is the highest point so it will be able to get over the hills. One way to get more energy is to make the car have a higher mass. A car with 60kg has 2937J of energy while a car with 42kg only has 2054J. The mass has no effect on speed, evidence to support this is in a test roller coaster I changed mass 4 times and speed was the same between all cars tested. A car at the top of the hill stopped has all of its energy as potential energy waiting to be spent. Once it has reached the bottom of the hill all of the Pe turns into Ke. One example is at 5 meters drop height pe at the top is 2932j and ke is 0j. At the bottom of the drop pe is 1 and ke is 2930 Throughout the ride, the total energy remains the same yet the energy just changes forms. To make it simple higher drop height means higher energy and speed, higher mass higher energy., mass has no effect on speed, and TE remains the same throughout the ride. My design follows all of the requirements necessary for a save fast and fun roller coaster. Please choose my design