    Hello, Gonzales Family I am going to be representing a roller coaster I have created with my team just for you. We will be showing you our coaster called Full Throttle. The concept of the roller coaster is that the Full Throttle will have loops and hills, and you may even go upside down! So let´s get on rolling into the concepts of the roller coaster!!
   The Full Throttle will have a super secret tunnel to get into. And as you find your way into it the tunnel, you have to walk your way to the line and see the cool artsy walls and then you land yourself in the waiting line. (yes sadly there's going to be a waiting line because of how good the ride will be.) As you get into the ride you fasten the seat belt and get ready to take off. Once the ride is ready to go then you will feel the ride start to move up and out of the tunnel where you can start to feel yourself going up. Then now you will be at the top of the ride which is going to be 4.53m, and the PE is going to be 2215 at the very top of the drop yes you heard me the drop! Then as the drop goes and you fall and get to the bottom before you go up to the hill the PE (Potential Energy.) Will be 1 and the KE (Kinetic Energy) is now going to be 2214 which is pretty crazy if I say so. You might think the energy just went away but it didn't let me tell you the relationship between them. So you start with PE on top which is 2215 and the KE is going to be 0 but when the cart goes down from the drop the PE goes down with it and the KE rises. This means the PE is transferring the energy into the KE so no energy is escaping but only being transferred from one to another. So if you wanted to see the connection between Energy and PE and KE it¨s basically a maintained balanced with each other energy sources. Let's get into the real concept here, what are KE and PE? Well as were getting into this deeper were gonna need to know what it is as we continued the KE (Kinetic Energy) of an object is processed due to its very motion. This means everything has Kinetic Energy, such as walking, running or even climbing a mountain. As for Potential Energy it's, a stored form of energy that can produce motion. Now you can think of this as the PE  as stored energy that can become Kinetic energy. 
    But that was a quick lesson back to the coaster now. As we get onto the hill the ride will go up and the top of the hill is going to be 4.42m now the PE is going to be 2168m high and the KE will be 52m. Now as it goes down the hill the energy passes through one another and goes down and makes it over. 
    So what's the difference between the Initial drop and the Hill height, well if you look and see at the initial drop it¨s 4.53m, if you also look at Now as we get into the fun part, we will be discussing how mass and energy really work together and more. So for the very first thing, the Intail height will be at 3.60m with a speed of 8.39 following it down. You might think why did we choose this height of the initial drop, well it's because of safety reasons, so people when they ride the ride wouldn't get injured and who knows but we don't have to find that out! So as we continue down the drop and onto the hill. The hill height will come to 3.41 and now the speed of 1.88m/s.
    And as I said before we did this for safety reasons, and so when we create it should go fast but not fast to the point where it can be dangerous to the park. Anyways as we transition into the loop the speed going down the hill is still going to be 8.39 which if you can see it's going the same speed as when it was going down the initial drop which will mean something in the end ;). But as we reach the loop the exciting part of all the height of the loop will be at 2.66 and the speed is going to come to 8.39mph. Well, now we can't forget the car, and the mass inside of it. Now the mass of the car is going to be 50 and if you want to add more mass you can but it's not going to change anything which if I do say so myself that's pretty cool. But anyways we choose these heights because of how good the speed and the leverage will be when we build this ride and how safe it will be. I know because of how many trails we did to find out what was going to be the best one liem for our first trail we did the initial drop height as 3.60 and the speed was just right and it was under 8.40 which is good! But have you looked into it other ones in 3.65 it was too high and there could have been an accent that could have occurred on the ride if we were to build it with the height of it. But with this, It compacts the PE, KE, and the total energy of the roller coaster because of how when you're looking at the PE (Potential Energy.) It's going to transition into the KE (Kinetic Energy), and it still going to be the same with the total energy. It's going to be what every KE and PE is I would say because the total energy comes from the PE and KE like the total together they will make. It will make the roller coaster go faster but not too fast at the same time, as it will stay constant with the speed. And it all falls into place with how the Law of Conservation of Energy, with all of this the PE and KE wouldn't be able to work together I say. And how they need each other to make it ride, and without one it wouldn't be able to happen with the other.
     Phew with all of those big words out of the way now there going to be even more loops and hills to see and I have my plan to show it out. We will be giving you the details in a little bit. But this is why you should choose our roller coaster the Full Throttle as one of your new rides and we promise you, you will have an amazing time!