During this unit we learned a lot about roller coasters & physics. First, we tested initial drop heights. We learned that the initial drop height should be as high as possible- the more energy, the better. My roller coaster has a drop height of 3.61m and a hill height of 3.5m. The height of the hill needs to be shorter than the initial drop, or the car won't make it over & to the end of the ride. This is also true for loops. The reason why this is true is because the initial drop is the way the car gets energy. The higher the drop, the more total energy. For example, I started with an initial drop height of 3m which only got 1466 J. But when I used 4.5m for the drop, the total energy went up to 2199 J. Therefore, the drop height affects the total energy for the whole ride.
Next we experimented with energy. First off, because there's no friction, the total energy will always stay the same, and KE + PE will always equal TE no matter what. This is true because of the Law of Conservation of Energy, which states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. At the beginning of the initial drop there's only PE, and no KE. But as the car goes down the drop, KE goes up and PE goes down. At the end of the ride, there's only KE and no PE. This means that the car needs the most energy as possible to get to the end of the ride. We also looked at the relationship between mass & energy. We found that a heavier car will create more total energy. For example, when I tested a car mass of 50kg, the total energy was 2201 J. When I changed the mass to 60kg, the total energy went up to 2641 J. This proves that the more mass, the more total energy.
Lastly, we experimented with speed. To keep the ride safe, the max speed has to be 8.4 m/s or less. My max speed is exactly 8.40 m/s, which is perfect because it's still exciting. The initial drop height affects the speed. I know this because the drop 4m high had a max speed of 8.8 m/s, but the drop of 3.61m had a max speed of 8.4 m/s. This means that the higher the initial drop, the greater speed. However, mass does not affect speed. This is true because when the mass of the car was 60kg, with the exact same track, the max speed was 8.4 m/s. When I tried 45kg, the speed stayed the exact same through the whole ride. Which means that it doesn't matter how heavy the car is, the speed will not change.
In conclusion, my roller coaster is fun, safe, and meets all expectations & limitations.