To the Gonzales family, today I am writing to to about a exciting but safe roller coaster that we believe would be best for you. This roller coaster has a initial drop height of 3.60 m, a hill of 3 m and a loop that is 3 m as well. The cars mass is 60 kg. I have found that these are the best numbers for a fun yet safe roller coaster. We first collect data about how the initial drop height effected the PE, (potential energy), KE (kinetic energy) and TE (total energy). The higher the initial drop height, the more total energy there will be, which means there is a lot of potential energy at the top of the initial drop, (PE), and kinetic energy, (KE). At the top of the initial drop height, there will be an amount of PE, but as the cart moves down the drop the PE will be converted to KE. This is the process. The energy will always stay the same do to the law of conservation of energy, which says that energy can not be created nor destroyed, but can be converted to different types. This makes more room for the car to go further distance. When adding a hill, we found that if the hill is the same height or is higher than the initial drop height, the cart will not be able to go over. Our data showed that when the initial drop height was 5 m and the hill height was 3.50 m, the cart was able to go over the hill. But when the hill height was 5m as well, the cart was not able to to make it over the hill. This is do to the fact that if the initial height is shorter, it only has the TE for that height, not anymore or any less. Then we took a look at how the initial drop effects the speed of the roller coaster. The higher the initial drop, the more speed is produced. Our data showed that at a height of 3.50 m, at the end of the roller coaster, the car had a speed of 8.27 mph. When the cart reached the end of initial drop, the speed was 8.27 mph and when the car reached the top of the hill, it was at 3.10 mph. Then comes the mass. The more mass, the more total energy there is. For example, the initial drop height is set at 5 m, and the cart mass is 52 kg. The total energy was 2524 J. Then the cart weight was put at 56 kg, changing the total energy to 2740. Although mass effects on total energy, it does not take effect on speed. When looking at our data, we changed the mass of the car 4 times with the initial height being 3.60 m and the hill height being 3 m. The masses where 45, 52, 56 and 60 kg. All of the speeds that where recorded where 8.39 m/s at the bottom of the initial drop and at the end of the ride was 8.39 m/s. Not changing a thing