To Gonzalez family.

                                                                                    

This letter is for the roller coaster. The data I have found on the roller coaster. It will be shown as it varies by energy, initial drop height, hill height, and car mass this is all made to emphasize excitement and safety.

                                                                               Initial Drop.

I would recommend making a 3.50 meter initial drop. This would be beneficial to the roller coaster as it had the most amount of Joules (energy) while still being safe as this would be popular as the drop would be really exciting to the fan base. And is less than the most speed that a human could last as the most amount of speed is 8.4 m/s as the most you could do while when 3.50 m is the highest we could go as it gives us 8.27 m/s of speed while if the initial drop height was 4.75 it would exceed the amount of speed as it would go 9.64 m/s exceeding the 8.4 m/s threshold.

                                                                               Hill height.

Then I would recommend making a 2.50 meter hill as you cant make it the same height or a higher height than the initial drop height. As the total energy would go from all PE at the top of the drop to being almost all KE at the bottom of the hill. And there wouldn't be enough energy to get over the hill this would be best as it charges up for another drop but is safe and can make it over the hill while still producing  total 2443 Joules of energy. This can happen as the law of conservation of energy is that energy cannot be created nor destroyed. 

                                                                                  Car Mass.

The best car mass would be 50 kg as it produces the same Joules as when there is less or more weight on the car. It goes the same speed it goes as you would have it going the same speed as mass doesn't matter producing the same excitement while being safe.

                                                                                     Energy
As the height affects the car a lot because it shows how it impacts PE, KE, and total energy. Because when it starts its all PE but you have to think about the change to KE so you have to keep the height down. As it all changes to KE and would make the speed too fast for the human body making the coaster unsafe. showing the law of conservation of energy. As energy as energy cannot be destroyed only changed which is showed as the total energy never changes.This is all because the total energy never changes. 

                                                                                 Conclusion.

All of this shows why you should go with a roller coaster that has a 3.50 meter initial drop 2.50 meter hill and make the car mass 50 kilograms. This would make the car go at a great speed keeping the ride exciting while being safe.