Today I will be telling the Gonzalez family about the best roller coaster design because it will, be fun, safe, and exciting. When making a roller coaster, you have to look at a lot of different safety features, we found out that the car must not go over 8.4 m/s if we want the riders to be safe, which we do. We found the perfect height for this roller coaster because it comes right to the edge of the maximum speed. At an initial drop height of 3.61 meters, the coaster's max speed will be 8.4 m/s, this will give the riders an exhilarating ride while still being as safe as possible. When we tried anything higher than that, the riders would have had injuries or worse. In trial 1 of testing, we sent the car going down at 3.75 m, this was way too fast and we had to lower it. After extensive testing, we found out that the perfect height was 3.61 meters. This is also an amazing height because of the PE, KE, and TE it uses, it has about 2110 joules of total energy. We will need that energy to make it through the ride because if we don't we would not make it up the hill. When we tried to use a higher hill height than the initial drop height, it fell back down, even if it was just a little bit higher, the car just did not have enough energy. Hills take a certain amount of energy to make up and over, the initial drop mostly determines how much energy we get. PE+KE=TE. That is the equation for the law of conservation of energy, the PE and KE shift from one side to the other but no matter what, they both will always equal the total energy because energy cannot be created or destroyed. This is important because, as I said before, if we don't put enough energy into our ride, we will not be able to make it up hills. This is why we need the hills to be lower than our initial drop height. For the coaster we are making, we have a drop and can't use chains or systems to put more energy into our ride. We can add hills just as long as they are shorter than the initial drop height. This also goes along with the loops that we want to add to our design.
          The mass of the car also has a role to play in this ride, if we have a car with more mass, we will have more energy for our ride. This impacts our ride because when going up hills, we will need more Kinetic energy to pass through it and make it to the end of the ride, we found that in general, the more energy, the better the ride will be. This is why I'm recommending that we use one of the heaviest cars we can find. You may be wondering if the car has something to do with speed. However, it has no effect on the speed of our ride. We tested this in trials. In trial 1, we set the mass to 40 kg. The speed was 8.4 m/s. When we tested in trial 4, the speed was the same. We wondered why this was until we found the equations, they both have the mass as a component in them and they cancel each other out. So we should have the biggest car we can find to increase the total energy.
           These are the reasons you should use my coaster because it is the fastest, most exhilarating, and safe for our riders.