Hey Gonzales family,
If I were to design a roller coaster for the Gonzales theme park. I would tell them. The height of the initial drop must be higher than the hill that comes after it. If is not, the amount of total energy would be the same for both hills and with all the Potential energy, it still wouldn't be enough to get to the top of the hill. This is shown in my data on the subject Add a hill on my first trial. I set my initial height and my additional hill height both to 5m. The potential energy at the top of the initial hill was 2449J and the kinetic energy was 0J. At the top of the additional hill the potential energy was 2449J and the kinetic energy was 0 so it had no more energy to go farther, so the cart didnt have enough kinetic energy to get past the second hill. 

The relationship between kinetic energy and potential energy is at the top of a hill there will be more potential energy than Kinetic. But as the car moves down the track the Potential energy and Kinetic Energy flip and at the bottom of the hill is where the Kinetic energy will be more than the potential energy. As the car moves it keeps the total energy the same but only changes the kinetic energy and potential energy. This is shown in my data on trial three of Mass & Energy. The car mass was 40kg. At the top of the initial hill which was 5m. The potential energy was 1957J, but as the cart began to go down the hill, the kinetic energy and potential energy switched. The kinetic energy was now 1955J at the bottom of the initial hill, and the amount of total energy, 1957J stays the same throughout.

So if the hills were the same height it wouldn't have enough total energy to get to the top of the second hill, which is why the initial hill should always be higher than the additional hill. 
I would start with a higher initial hill so the higher it is the more total energy it will have and then it will go faster and be able to clear the additional hill in front of it.

When speed comes into play, it has to be below 8.4 m/s so I would start with my initial drop. I would not put it at max height so its easier to find the safest speed for the track. Then i would add an additional hill a bit smaller than the initial drop so you can have a speed closest to the max speed for more enjoyment. Then once you find your heights that work, you can add a loop like I did, this is all shown on my data table on my data trial four on Drop height & speed. I set the mass of the car to 50kg and my hill height to 3.2m tall, after setting that i put different initial heights in to find the perfect speed and on trail four I found that if I set the Initial drop to 3.6m tall that the speed at the bottom of the drop reached 8.39m/s which is one less than the max and then i added a loop with the height of 2.5m tall, it kept the speed of 8.39m/s.