After learning about the many differnt things that go into a roller coaster that is functioning, safe, and fun. when it comes to roller coasters that meet all of the creteria you really have to put in the reasearch for the heights, speeds and really everything.
      when It comes to the height of the coaster I would do 3.5 M, This will allow the coaster to get all of the PE energy that is needed to get from the start to the finish all on it own. Because when we start it at this height it will let us do bigger hills and loops, so I did a hill right after the inital drop and the height of that is 3.0 M so that it adds more to the ride then just a drop, which at the bottom of the inital drop we are at a speed of 8.27 M/s. once we come right off of the hill it will go into a loop with a height of 3.25 M so that people can get an inversion in the ride while still staying safe and not going to fast. After you exit the loop you will glide to a stop and safly finish the ride.
         When it came to picking the mass for the roller coaster, I picked a mass of 40 kg. When it comes to mass and the affect it has on the ride, it only affects the total amounts of energy but not the top speed. With this knowlage I pick 40 kg mass because then it will alow us to do the hill and loops with getting to much energy and causing issues for the ride. With the mass at 40 kg, at the top of the inital drop it had 1217 J of PE which is just enough to get us through the ride without any assistance. 
       The height is also one of the very important factors when it comes to the coaster, the taller the coaster the more total energy and also speed the coaster can get. With the heights that were talked about earlier it will allow us to stay in the target speed range with a top speed of 8.3 m/s.
       The law of conservation of energy can be seen in our coaster when the total amount of energy never changes, only it changes the form (PE, KE). It affects our coaster design because we need to use it to make sure it can get to the end.
       With the new knolage we got I was able to pressent you with this safe, fun, and funconing coaster that might just be the next one to build.