Dear Gonzales Family,
Using what I have learned about the mass, speed and height in correlation to how fast the car moves. I've come up with a new design that will not only be super safe for the passengers but it'll also be super fun and will draw in a whole new crowd to your amusement park. Since the mass does not affect the speed but rather, how high the starting point for the roller coaster is I've gone with a higher start point of 3.5 meters of the ground. Since getting up the hills is going to be a challenge if the car doesn't have enough speed, I knew getting a higher starting point would be best. The more build up potential energy at the start of the ride the better it will go through the whole ride without needing a push or any sort of assistance. A lower hill height will be better, the hill height I had chosen was 2.5 meters so after it would go through the loop which would have a height of 3 meters. A heavier car was used in most of the experiments, around 58 kg to be exact. I found it could not hold more weight without affecting the speed. From my data I collected 3.5 meters held the most speed out of all the tests. The mass I decided could hold more people and allow more people to ride on the roller coaster. The mass of the car will have more potential energy and therefore release more kinetic energy as it's going down. While the height will release the kinetic energy faster. When potential transforms into kinetic energy it doesn't get destroyed which is what the Law Of Conservation of Matter says. Not only does the energy not get destroyed it also doesn't get created either. Which means whoever created much energy at the start of the ride is going to  be there for the rest of the ride whether it's potential energy or kinetic energy. The amount of total energy the car is going to  create should be somewhere around 1960 to 1970 joules of energy every time the ride starts again. The height of the beginning of the roller coaster affects how much potential energy starts to  build up. The more mass that gets added to the car the more energy gets built up on top of how much potential energy there is affects the cars speed a lot. The initial drop builds up potential energy by storing what energy is going to be used for the ride. 