Hello, Gonzales family! In order to make a thrilling, safe, and working roller coaster, there are some factors that need to be taken into consideration. That includes a tall initial drop, which will allow for more energy and speed. A hill that has a height below the initial drop in order for it to be completed. And lastly, the relationships between mass and energy, and mass and speed. My roller coaster has everything needed, and will leave tourists in awe and buckling up for a second time around.

The first step to creating a roller coaster is to start with an initial drop, and the higher the better! Initial drops matter, and are important to set the stage of making an incredible roller coaster.  The higher your initial drop is, the more energy there is. That is because the potential energy increases with height, and when the roller coaster is put into motion, the potential energy transfers into kinetic energy. Potential energy and kinetic energy work together to equal the total energy and the Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. This is the reason why the two types of energy switch back and forth and never exceed the total energy. The statement that more height will give you more energy can be concluded by the simulation I created and recorded. At the highest height of 5 m, the energy was higher compared to all of the other trials. At the lowest height of 3 m, the total energy was the lowest out of the trials. As the drop height slowly decreased, the energy did the same. This shows that more height will give you more energy, which will improve the entertainment of the roller coaster. 

In another simulation it was found in our data that an increased initial drop height gives more speed. With a height of 3.75 m the speed of the car was 8.56 m/s, and at 5 m/s the speed was 9.88 m/s. This was a trend throughout the data, the speed increasing along with the height. The simulation had no friction, which allowed the track to the maximum speed possible since there was nothing slowing the car. This proves the claim of more height equals more speed. The maximum speed for a safe roller coaster is 8.4 m/s, and the perfect drop height I found was 3.6 m, along with a hill height of 3.5 m which we'll now focus on.

An initial drop isn't all that needs to be added. To help make the roller coaster more exciting, a hill needs to be added and help give the ride another burst of energy. However, you can't just choose random heights for your hill, because if you want your roller coaster to complete the track, you have to follow some guidelines. The initial drop has to have a taller height than the hill, because there is only so much energy in a track, and won't be able to be completed if it requires more. The Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. So if the total energy in the initial drop is smaller than in the hill, it won't be able to complete it since it will require more energy than the drop has. During my simulations, my data helped prove this theory, by looking at the same drop height and changing the height of the hill. I set my initial drop height at 3 m, and attempted a hill at the same height of 3 m. There wasn't enough energy from the drop height, so the track was incomplete. However, when I lowered the hill height to below 3 m, there was enough energy for the car to complete the track. This shows that in order for the roller coaster to be completed, the initial drop has to be taller than the hill.

Lastly, car weights on the coaster need to be considered as well. The more weight the car has, the more energy! In our simulation we experimented with different car weights and how it affected how much energy there was and the roller coaster performance. At the car weight of 46 kg, our lightest car, the total energy was 1350 J. Then adjusting the weight to 60 kg, our max weight, the total energy was 1761. The weight changed the amount of energy drastically, and it's significantly more noticeable that the 60 kg car had more energy. The statement that the more car weight equals more energy was true to all the other statements as well, the weight improving along with the energy. The data shows that the more car weight, the more energy. However, more weight doesn't effect the speed of the car. Another experiment we tested involved us looking at speed when adjusting the car mass. From the heaviest mass and the lightest mass, there was a trend in our data for the speed to stay the same. All speeds were equal, which proves that weight doesn't change the speed of our track.  

This draws the conclusion that these factors need to be included in the roller coaster design. A high initial drop will give the roller coaster more energy and more speed! The hill height will have to be shorter than the initial drop in order for completion and placed strategically to keep the car in motion. The car weight will help increase the energy of the ride, but won't effect the speed of the track. My roller coaster takes all of these factors into mind and has a safe and enjoyable ride. These characteristics will improve the quality of the ride and ensure the safety of riders. Thank you for you time!