In this essay, I will be telling you why and how my roller coaster design is the best roller coaster. And why you want to choose it to get people to come to your park. My roller coaster design will have an initial drop starting at 3.60 meters. And a mass on the roller coaster set to 50 kg but it doesn't really matter and I will explain why. Then it will fall down the top of the initial drop, and go up another hill that is set to 3.0 meters. So it can still go up a high hill for extra excitement and then still have enough energy to make it over the hill. Then after that up and down my design has a big loop that is set at 2.75 meters high. Then that loop will go down onto the ground to finish the race. My roller coaster will be the fastest, most exciting roller coaster that makes it to the end of the finish line and is also safe for the riders. This roller coaster design will also not end where it starts. That is because based on the energy that is produced. It would be impossible for the roller coaster to finish the race.

That was a lot of information about my roller coaster in not very detailed responses. So in this section, I will explain to you the science and the design of my roller coaster. This will be in a very detailed way to help you understand and know why my design is the best one for you. Begin by setting the initial drop to 5 meters because the higher your initial drop is, the more energy will be produced. One way to prove that the roller coaster would have more energy with a taller start is by looking at my data. On the first trial when the initial drop height was set to 2 meters and the mass was at its default of 50g. The total energy created was only 977. While the other trial was where the initial drop height was set to 5 meters. And the default mass was set to 50g. The total energy got all the way up to 2,443. A massive difference in energy is produced just by setting the initial drop height to be higher. Which once again will give your riders a much more fun experience. But, when you factor in the safety of the ride that is far from the truth because it might be fun until there are some massive safety problems that could result in death. One way to prove that is by looking at the data when setting a roller coaster height to 5 meters like my initial plan. When the roller coaster went down the drop starting at 5 meters it got all the way up to 9.88 m/s. That is super fast and sounds like a fun ride until you realize how dangerous that is. Moving at that speed could result in serious injury or death and would not be a good idea to make a ride at that height in your park. But when you move down to an initial drop height of 3.25 it goes down to a safe speed of 7.97 m/s. That is a safe ride but also won't attract many people to come ride. That is why the height of 3.60 meters is the best because it is the fastest a ride can possibly go being at 8.40 m/s while still being a safe ride. This will all create more PE and KE from start to finish which means the total energy will increase, finishing a fun and safe ride. Also, the law of conservation proves this method because when the car starts at the top. It is full of potential energy and the higher it is the more PE there is. Then while it falls the energy can not be created or destroyed so the energy transfers to kinetic energy (KE). That creates the total energy, KE + PE = TE (total energy). 

Now to talk about the mass. The mass plays a factor in this design too, and I think setting the mass to more will make create more energy to finish the ride. I would want to set the mass of the roller coaster to 58 kg. The reason I would want to do that is that when there is more mass it would cause more energy to be produced. My experiments/trials prove that. In the first trial, I set the mass of my roller coaster to be at 40 kg. The roller coaster went up and down the hill and only ended with a total energy of 1,565. Then I did another trial and set the mass to 58 kg. The total energy got all the way up to 2,269. Once again a huge difference between just changing the mass of the roller coaster by 18 kg. That shows that if the mass of the roller coaster is set to a higher amount then it will have a ton of energy. And will definitely be able to finish the race. You might think that mass plays a role in the speed of the roller coaster but it really doesn't.  If you look at the data for mass and speed you will recognize one thing. Every single mass has the exact same speed at the bottom of the drop, top of the hill, and speed at the end of the ride. For example, you set the ride mass to be at 60 kg. The speed at the bottom of the drop with an initial drop height of 3.60 will be at 8.40 m/s. Then when you set the mass of the car to 40 kg, guess what, the speed is still at 8.40 m/s at the bottom of the drop. That is why the height of the drop height is the only thing that matters when talking about speed and energy.

Finally, the size of the hill. The size of the hill and the loop I want to have will be 3. 0 meters and 2.75 meters high. The first hill is set at 3.0 which is less than the initial drop height. Then the next one is a loop set to 2.75 meters high. Once again being shorter than the hill before it. Those reasons are because the roller coaster will not be able to make it up those hills without one being smaller than the one before it. The trials/data will prove that. In my trials, I set my initial drop height to 4 meters. Then I set my first hill to be at 4 meters. The total energy produced in that roller coaster with both drops at 4 meters was not enough and the roller coaster did not finish the race. Then when I set the hill height to 3 meters and 2 meters both trials made it over the hill with the initial drop height being at 4 m. Also with more than enough energy to keep going down the roller coaster. Both trials that had made it over the hill still had kinetic energy and could finish the race. But in the other trials where the hill was the same or higher than the initial drop the kinetic energy was at 0. Showing the relationship between the kinetic, potential, and total energy, and the hill height.

Those pieces of evidence really show exactly why my roller coaster will be the best. And you will want to use it for your park to get more people to come pay. 
