Dear Gonzales Family,

There are many things that need to go into the design of your roller coaster to make it safe, working, and fun. In this essay, I will be showing you what you need to include in your design and other facts to know about when it comes to energy and roller coasters. I have found the perfect roller coaster design that will be sure to bring in tons of new visitors every day and will be the best, most exciting, but still safe, roller coaster they will ever ride. I have made sure that my roller coaster fits all of the criteria it needs to so don't hesitate to use my design. 

First off, when considering the height of the initial drop of the coaster, the initial drop height impacts the total energy of the roller coaster. The higher the drop height, the greater the potential energy (PE) will be which will then raise the kinetic energy (KE) and also the total amount of energy of the coaster. In trial 2 when the release height was 4 meters, the potential energy at the top of the drop was 2145 joules. But in trial 1 when the release height was 5 meters, the potential energy at the top of the drop was 2443 joules. This shows that when the height of the roller coaster is increased, the potential energy goes up. 

Secondly, at the start of the track, the PE is bigger and then when the coaster is going, the KE gets larger. And then at the end of the ride, the KE is bigger and the PE is at 0 or 1 joules so then the total energy is bigger. In trial 5, when the release height was 4.5, the PE at the top was 2410 joules and the KE was 0. But when the car was at the bottom of the initial drop, the PE changed to 1 joule and the KE changed to 2409 joules. And the total energy of the roller coaster was 2410. This happened because, at the top of the roller coaster, there is a ton of stored-up energy (PE) in the car because it's not moving. But then when the car starts to move, the stored energy is then put into motion, bringing up the KE and lowering the PE.

I also know that anytime throughout the ride on the coaster, the PE and KE will always equal the total amount of energy, even if the PE and KE change. For example in trial 3 when the release height was 3.75 meters, at the top of the drop the PE was 2023 joules and the KE was 0 joules and then at the end of the initial drop, the PE was 1 joule and the KE was 2022 joules. This shows that when adding up the PE and KE, they will always equal the total energy at any point during the roller coaster ride. Also, in trial 5 when the release height was 5 meters, at the top of the drop the PE was 2443 joules and the KE was 0 joules. And then at the end of the initial drop, the PE was 1 joule and the KE was 2442 joules. The Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy can not be created nor destroyed, and the roller coaster ride proves this law. Because you can add up the PE and KE at any time in the trial to get the total amount of energy, this shows that energy is never created nor destroyed during the ride.

Another very important thing to take into consideration is that the initial drop height needs to be greater than the hill height or else the car won't be able to get over the hill successfully. And it will not make it to the end of the ride. I know this because in trial 4 when the hill height was 4.5 meters and the initial drop was 4 meters, the car did not make it over the hill. But then in trial 1 when the hill height was 3 meters and the initial drop was 4 meters, the car did make it over the hill because the hill height was less than the initial drop height. This is because the Law of Conservation of Energy says that energy can not be created nor destroyed, and the only way the car could make it over the hill would be for it to create more energy to move it over the hill. But, it can't because of the Law of Conservation. 

Another thing that I learned is that the more mass the roller coaster car has, the greater amount of PE, KE, and total energy the roller coaster will have. I know this because in trial 4 when the car had the greatest mass of 60 kilograms (kg), the amount of PE it had at the initial drop was 2350 joules. And the KE it had at the bottom of the drop was 2347 joules and the total amount of energy was 2350 joules. But then in trial 1 when the mass was the least it could be at 40 kg, the PE was 1567 joules at the top of the initial drop. And the KE was 1565 joules at the bottom of the drop. And the total energy was 1567 joules. This shows that the greater the mass of the car, the more PE, KE, and total energy it will have. And the car will also go faster when it has a greater mass and then slower when it has a smaller mass because it has more energy which leads to a faster speed.

An additional thing that I found out during my trials was that when the initial drop height is higher, the speed of the car will be greater throughout the ride. And then when the initial drop height is smaller, the speed will be less throughout the ride. I know this because in trial 1 when the initial drop height was 5 meters and the weight of the car was 55 kg, the speed at the end of the ride was 9.88 m/s, which is not safe. But then in trial 7, when the initial drop height was 3.60 meters, the speed at the end of the ride was 8.37 m/s, which is safe. This shows that when the initial drop height is greater, the speed increases of the roller coaster car.

The last thing I learned throughout this project is that when you increase or decrease the speed of the roller coaster car, it will always go the same speed each time because the mass does not impact the speed of the car. In trial one when the initial drop was 3.60 meters and the hill height was 3 meters and the car mass was 60kg, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.39 m/s and then the speed at the top of the hill was 3.39. But when I lowered the mass of the roller coaster car to 41kg, the speed was 8.39 m/s at the bottom of the drop and 3.39 m/s at the top of the hill. This shows that even when the mass of the car is changed, the roller coaster car will still go at the same speed. Mass doesn't change throughout the ride so it doesn't change the speed and it doesn't say that mass affects speed, it says that mass changes energy but energy doesn't lead to a change in speed.

Now that you know all of the science behind the reasons for my design, here is my design of the best roller coaster ever. The design of my roller coaster has an initial drop height of 3.60 meters, because that is the max height the hill can be without the speed of the roller coaster car going over the limit of 8.4 meters per second and still reaching 6.7 meters per second during the ride. It will have a hill height of 3 meters because like I said earlier, the hill height needs to be less than the initial drop height to have the roller coaster car make it to the ride successfully. A loop height of 2.50 meters because I also know that in order for the car to be able to make it through the loop correctly, it needs to have a height less than the hill height. Just like the hill height needs to be less than the initial drop height. And lastly, the roller coaster car will have a mass of 55 kilograms because the greater the mass, the greater the energy so the roller coaster will have more energy. But it won't have more speed based on the mass because greater energy doesn't change the speed of the car. I have scientific research and data from my own trials to back up my design above. 

Ultimately, there is no doubt that my design meets all the requirements for a safe, yet thrilling roller coaster. This is the best, most safe, and fully functioning roller coaster you'll ever see. I promise that if you follow my ideas and design, you are sure to bring in a ton of business and have your visitors having fun for the whole day and will be coming back for more. 