Hi Gonzales family! I am going to explain to you why my roller coaster is both fun and super safe. There will be drops, a hill, and a loop you will be able to experience on this roller coaster!

The start of my roller coaster is an initial drop that will start at 5.00m and the PE at the top of the initial drop will start at 2443j and the KE will start at 0j. At the end of the initial drop the PE will be at 1j and the KE will be at 2442j. The reason the PE ends with a 1 is because of the Law of Conservation, this affects the energy because the Law of Conservation states that energy can not be created or destroyed only transferred. This is shown in my roller coaster when KE was 2442j and PE was 1j and the initial and the total energy was 2443, this happens because PE+KE=Total energy. After the initial drop there will be a hill with a height of 4.25m. The best way to add a hill is to have it be a little smaller than the initial drop because if it's higher than the initial drop the cart wont be able to go over the hill. At the top of the hill the PE will have a total of 2088j and the KE will have a total of 360j. Having the height of the initial drop will start at 5.00m and having a hill of 4.25m will allow the cart to be able to go over the hill. If both the height of the initial drop and hill were both 5.00m the cart would not have enough energy to go over the hill. The mass of the cart will be 60kg. I choose that mass because, The more mass the cart has the more total energy the roller coaster will have.The reason the energy switches so much is because, potential energy transforms into kinetic energy, and kinetic energy converts into potential energy, and then back again. Changing the initial drop height affects the energy because if you made the initial drop smaller the total energy was smaller and if you made the initial height taller the total energy was higher. Changing the initial drop height also affected the speed because it either made it faster or slower. I have this showed in my data when the initial drop was 4.00 the speed at the end of the ride was 8.84m/s, and when the initial drop was 3.50 the speed at the end of the ride was 8.27m/s. When you changed the mass of the cart it affected the energy by giving it more total energy but it did not affect the speed at all, the speed stayed the same no matter what the mass was. This is shown in my data when the mass of the car was 40 the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.41, but when the mass of the car was 58 the speed at the bottom of the drop was also 8.41. In my roller coaster design I did not use any friction.

These are the reasons and science behind why I think you should choose my super fun and safe roller coaster.