Dear Gonzales family,
our team has great recommendations for your next roller coaster design that will assist it in being exiting, safe, and still able to make it all the way to the end of the ride.

One recommendation is that the initial drop height is higher than the hills during the ride. Without an external force pulling the cart, it will not make it over the hill and to the end of the track. This is due to the amount of PE at the top of the initial drop compared to the amount of KE it will need to get over the hill. For example, if the initial drop of a roller coaster only has a PE of 2000J but the PE at the top of the hill is 2500J, the car will not make it over the hill. This is because the KE it needs is already determined by the PE at the top of the initial drop. Together PE and KE make TE.  Due to the law of conservation(energy cannot be created or destroyed, only converted from one form to another), energy cannot be created out of thin air during the ride. This means you need the initial drop height to provide all of the PE needed for the cart to make it to the end.

TE is the total amount of PE and KE combined at all times. The TE of the Ride will never change during the ride. For example if the PE at the top of the initial drop is 2000J, and the KE is 0J , the TE is 2000J . Now, if the cart is on its way down the initial drop and the KE is 1000J and the PE is also 1000J the TE will STILL be 2000J. 

Another thing to note is that the mass of the car does not effect the speed of the cart whatsoever. speed is the rate in which an object can move or operate. no matter how heavy or light you make the cart, mass will not effect the speed, total energy, or he safety of your customers. However, The initial drop height will effect the speed of the cart and can effect the safety of your customers. The cart cannot have a speed over 8.4 meters per second. This will cause the ride to be unsafe for people.

In conclusion to all my recommendations, the initial drop height cannot be too high for safety but it cannot be to low to get over the hills in the ride. Again, mass of the cart does not effect speed or TE. Also remember the law of conservation of energy: energy can only be transferred, not created or destroyed. I hope I gave the Gonzales family a better understanding about all of these things.