Dear Gonzales Family 
I have come to show you y roller coaster that I think you should build. I am going to show you how my roller coaster you should have in you park. My roller coaster has a starting initial drop that no one will suspect. Then there is a hill that you go up at at a 90 degree angle. Then you flip up right and you go in to a loop heading straight in to a hill and turn right away for a huge initial drop turn mid way and then you reach the end.The cart will way about 70 KG(kilograms) and reach up to speeds about 150 MPH(miles per hour)and yes i picked it to go 1 MPH then Formula Rossa .

The starting initial drop would be 50 m drop and the PE (potential energy) would be about 3,000. The hill going up is going up at a 90 degree angle and will flip going into a loop there will be no PE but lots of KE. When getting near the end of the loop you will go into a hill then right in to a drop. 
On the hill there will be very little PE but a lot of KE. When going down there will be lots of PE and a lot of KE. When nearing the end of the initial drop you flip to the up right position and get to the end of the coaster. 

When i was researching about KE and PE i found out that a initial drop from 5 meters that the PE at the top was at 2463 and the KE was 0. When it reached the bottom the PE was at 1 and the KE was at 2462 and the total energy was 2463. I ran a couple more test and then I added a hill. When i added the hill i kept the initial drop at 5 meters but i adjusted the hill height. One of my runs i put the hill height at 5 meters and the car wasn't able to make it but when i put the height at 3.63 meters it could make it.The PE at the top of the initial drop was 2446  and the KE was 0. At the top of the hill the PE was at 1675 and the KE 772 and the total energy was 2447. It made it over the hill. Finally in my last test i changed the weight of the car. I changed the weight 4 times. With the weight of 60 kg the PE was 2937 at the top. At the bottom the KE was 3930. When i changed the weight to 45 kg the PE was 2213 at the top. At the bottom the KE was 2208 with a total energy of 2213. 

The next thing i have learned about is drop height and speed. i learned that the the initial drop has to be higher then the hill but also slow enough that it is fun and safe for the riders. When researching this i found out that the max speed of the roller coaster that is safe for a human is 8.4.I found out that the initial drop has to be just higher then the hill.For example when dropping a car form 5 meters, the total speed is 9.88. When dropping it from 3.25 meters the total speed is 8.29 and is safe for human. 

The last thing i researched was mass and speed. When researching this i found out that is there is  2 different masses the total speed will be the same. This is because there is no friction. For example with a mass of 56 KG the total speed at the end was 8.29 and same for humans. When i did another one the weight was 40 pounds the total speed at the end was 8.29. The safest for humans to ride a roller coaster is a speed of 8.4 but for it to be fun the speed needs to be a lower then 8.4.

The roller coaster will be about 1 minutes long and i will charge 11 dollars a person. People will need safety goggles and tight safety bars to hold them in. There will be no phone allowed and we will hold them tight for the m in compartments behind the ticket counter. I hope you pick my roller coaster. THANK YOU   

