The reason why the roller coaster would work is because its initial drop height 3.50 is higher then the hill height 3.25.The reason that is because if the hill height is higher there will not be enough kinetic another to make it up the hill.For example when i did the roller coaster simulation i had a trial where i set the initial drop height to 3.50 and the hill height to 4.0 the cart could not make over the hill but when i kept the drop height the same and lowered the hill height to 3.25 it got over the hill . The reason that the hill height must be higher is because as it comes down the hill potential energy transfers to   kinetic energy  the potential energy  and kinetic energy  transfer to total energy allowing it up the hill. And another thing that helps is  more mass  when something has more mass the more kinetic energy it has is higher  at the bottom and it would make it go faster up the hill. For example in my trial the drop height for both simulations was 3.50 and the hill height was 3.25 and when the 60 kg  cart had 2054 jolts of potential energy while the 40 kg had 978 which proves the heavier the cart the more energy making it easier to get to the top of the hill. In conclusion the design will be fun and work because the drop height is higher then the hill height . The higher the hill height the more potential energy at the top and kinetic energy at the bottom. Another thing is mass does not affect the speed in my my trial when the initial drop height was 3.25 and the hill height was 3.0 with a 56 kg it was the same speed as it was when there was a 48 kg cart which proves that isn't weight it is height of initial drop when i increased it by 0.25 to 3.50 it was a 8.4 ms speed instead of a 8.1 ms with the same cart and because of that you have to be careful of the initial drop height it will go against the standards because the ride will be over 8.4m/s making the ride unsafe.if you are going to add more than one hill to your ride the best way to do it is by making your initial drop height higher then the hill height and make the  1st hill taller than the others. pe is the highest at the top and slowly transfers to ke at the bottom. resulting in te  the more ke the less pe the more pe the less ke. The roller coaster i created will work because the initial drop height is 3.00 the hill height is 2.75 and the loop height is 2.50 and the fastest speed is 7.7 the reason it works is because the hill height is lower then the initial drop height and the loop height is lower then the hill height allowing the cart to make it threw the entire coaster safely. In conclusion my roller coaster offers a  safe ride not going over the maximum speed limit and also will bring the riders a fun time because the initial drop height is relatively high and there is a hill and 1 inversion.
