Dear Gonzales family, you have requested a roller coaster, and I have the best one for you. See, for a roller coaster to be exiting and reach the end, it will first need an initial drop hight, the best hight found, was 3.30 meters. It will also need a hill to make it exiting, but the hill will need to be a lower hight than the initial drop hight to ensure that the cart makes it to the end of the ride. I found in the simulation that 3.20 meters is the best option. The hight of the hill and initial drop will need to be a bit small, because it will need to have a speed that is safe and wont cause harm to the riders. The max speed on this roller coaster would be 8.02 m/s.
The higher the initial drop hight, the more PE it will have at the top, then the energy will transfer into KE at the bottom because energy cant be created or destroyed, only transfered. But in the end, there will still be the same amount of total energy. At 4.00 meters, my roller coaster will have 1958 J total energy. But no mater where the cart is on the ride, the PE plus KE will always equal the total energy. The hill hight can not be 4.00 though because if it was it would be too fast and would cause harm, instead, it will be 3.30 meters to ensure the speed is less than 8.40 m/s.
The hill hight was initialy going to be be 3.75 meters, this ensures that the car will make it to the end because it is a lower hight than the initial drop. The energy gets distributed throuout the ride and at the top of the hill, the car will have 1844 J PE and KE but then at the end there was only KE left and no PE. This would not have worked if the hill was 4.52 meters because there would be 1960 J PE at the top of the hill, then it will go back to the beginning of the ride, because it is too tall of a hill. It would also not get to the end if the hill was the same hight as the initial drop. Although this was a good hight, it can not be 3.75 meters because then the speed would be higher than 8.40 m/s, it will instead be 3.20 meters because it will still have a good amount of energy.
If the car is much heavier, it will have a lot of energy, but it wont have as much if it is light. The best mass for the cart, is 50 kg this made it so the total energy was 1951 J. If the cart had less mass, it would not have as much energy, for example, a cart with a mass of 43 kg had 1701 J total energy. This does not effect how the energy gets transfered from PE to KE at all. The mass of the cart does not effect the speed either because it cancells out, the only thing that effects the speed, is the initial drop hight, and hill hight. This is shown in the simulation when the cart was 45 kg, the speed at the bottom was 8.84 m/s, and at 50 kg, it was 8.84 m/s again. The only thing to lower the speed was the hill and initial drop hight, because when I lowered the hight of the initial drop hight and hill hight, it was going 8.14 m/s. 
I will also add a 2.20 meter loop at the end to add to the durration, thiswill make it more exiting. the loop will need to be shorter than the initial drop and hill hight to make it to the end of the ride.
I hope you feel that my evidence on how hight of initial drop, hight of the hill, and mass effects the energy will convince you to pick my roller coaster design. Along with, Weather or not the car will make it to the end, and how the initial drop hight, hill hight, and mass effect the speed.