I would recommend that the Gonzales family try our coaster because it is fun and exhilarating. The reason our coaster will be awesome is the initial drop is pretty high at the height of 3.61 meters. This is good because the higher the initial drop is the more potential energy there is, and if there is more potential energy then that means there is also more kinetic energy. I know this because as the car goes down the hill potential energy changes to kinetic. This also creates a lot of speed and g force making the ride fun and exciting. The next part of my coaster is a 2 meter high hill which will add to the fun factor of the coaster. I know my coaster will make it over the hill and to the end of the ride because the hill has less height then the initial drop which means the coaster can make it over the hill. I know this is true because the data I got from Add a Hill says if the coaster starts at 3.61 meters and the hill is at 2 meters the coaster will make it over, but if the hill is 5 meters the coaster doesn't make it over. I know the energy values won't be changed because the law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, but it can change forms. So in a closed system like this there is no friction which means kinetic energy will not be changed into heat energy, and I will retain the same energy levels. So I know if my hill height is less then the initial drop then my potential energy will stay the same. And since potential energy can change fluidly from kinetic and back to potential without losing energy ( law of conservation of energy) my total energy will stay the same. Making my coaster work every time. Going back to how fun my coaster will be I can assure you my coaster will have the most speed possible without being lethal thus being the most fun. I know this because the data I collected in Drop height and Speed says a coaster with an initial drop of 3.61 meters will have a max speed of 8.4 m/s while a coaster with an initial drop of 3.75 meters will have a max speed of 8.56 m/s which is just above a safe speed. I know the mass of my coaster ( which is 45 kg ) wont effect my speed because the data i found in Mass and Speed says a coaster with a mass of 45 kg and a drop height of 3.61 meters will have a max speed of 8.4 m/s and a coaster with a mass of 60 kg and the same drop height will also have a max speed of 8.4 m/s. These are all the reasons I think you should accept my coaster. I know it will be fast, safe, fun, work correctly every single time. I hope you choose my coaster.