Dear Gonzales Family,

There are many contributing factors and variables that go into designing a roller coaster that will be functional but still enjoyable for the rider. Throughout all the tests and trials I have taken, it has become clear that a perfect roller coaster for your park will have some specific components. The initial drop height will be 3.61m, the hill 2.5m, the loop 2m and the mass of the car 55kg. Let me explain to you why these measurements would make the best roller coaster.

A non-negotiable factor for the best possible roller coaster design would be a 3.5m high drop height. The initial drop height of the coaster has a huge impact on whether or not the roller coaster will work. The initial drop height affects the amount of total energy present. The greater the height of the initial drop the more total energy. (PE+KE=TE) At the top of a track that has a higher initial drop height there is a larger amount of PE present (there would be 0 KE present). At the bottom of that same track there will be the same amount of total energy, just converted to KE. This is due to the fact that, at the top of the track the car is not in motion and therefore storing energy. Another explanation for this would be the law of conservation of energy, which states that energy can't be created nor destroyed but could be converted to another form of energy. The car not being in motion is the reason that all of the present energy is PE. There is all KE at the bottom or end of the coaster due to the motion of the coaster. The higher the initial drop, the more total energy there is. The data I collected proves this because in a trial where the initial drop height is 2m the total energy is 1067J. A trial with an initial drop height of 4m has a total energy of 2124J.

The height of the initial drop directly impacts the speed of the coaster. The higher the drop height the greater the amount of PE. As the car is moving down the hill, the amount of KE increases and the amount of PE decreases. The more PE at the top of the initial drop will result in there being more KE present. At the bottom of the drop the PE is 0 and the KE is the same as the total amount of energy. If there is more KE that means that the speed of the car will increase and be greater. During a trial with the initial drop height of 4.5m and a hill height of 2.5m there is 9.38 m/s for speed at the end of the ride and bottom of the initial drop. The amount of speed that is safe for a rider to endure would be equal to or less than 8.4m/s. A trial with the initial drop height of 3.6m and a hill height of 2.5m there is 8.40 m/s of speed at the end of the ride and bottom of the initial drop. This is the perfect amount of speed for a coaster to be extremely fun but still safe for the rider.

If a hill on the coaster is too tall, the car will not make it over. There would be no KE when it got to the highest point of the hill because the car wouldn't be in motion. In a trial with the hill height of 5m and the initial drop height of 4.5m the car didn't not go over and had 0 KE and the highest point it could be on the hill. With an initial drop height of 4.5m and a hill height of 2m, the car would surely go over. If it did make it over the hill then the amount of KE and PE at the top of the hill was dependent on the height of the hill. The total energy would equal the amounts of KE and PE. At the top of the Initial drop there is 0 KE, the car's not in motion. At the top of a hill there is an amount of KE due to the fact that the car is in motion. The PE at the top of the initial drop equals the  PE+KE at the top of the hill. Any hills on this coaster need to be lower than the initial drop height for the car to go over.  More energy is required to get over a hill that is taller than the initial drop height. The law of conservation states that energy can't be created so when the initial drop height is lower than the hill there is not enough energy for the car to go over the hill.

This roller coaster car also will need a decent amount of mass, 55kg. The more mass the car has the greater the amount of total energy.  A greater mass allows the car to move faster, the faster the car is moving the more energy it has. A car with a mass of 60kg moves faster along the track compared to a car with a mass of 40kg. The greater amount of energy has to come from somewhere, as the law of conservation says, energy can't be created or destroyed. In this case the energy comes from a greater mass and therefore a greater speed.

The mass I chose for this roller coaster is 55kg, there is no specific reason for this mass relating to speed.  Mass does not affect speed. While doing trials it was obvious that while testing different amounts of mass, the speed remains the same throughout. The only place that mass made a difference was with initial drop height. More height=more speed. No matter the amount of mass the coaster has, the speed will remain the same. Mass is able to directly affect the amount of energy that the car has but really has no impact on the speed of the car. The amount of mass through the coaster will remain the same. Nothing says mass would affect the speed of the coaster. Only initial drop height affects the speed. Within the data I collected, a trial with the mass of the car being 50kg the speed at the end of the coaster is 8.40 m/s. With the mass of 60kg the speed at the end of the ride is still 8.40m/s, therefore proving that mass does not affect speed. 
With a loop present in the coaster, that height would need to be less than the hill height. The perfect hill height for my coaster would be 2m. That is less than my hill height, so there will be enough energy for the car to make it through the loop.

As mentioned before and clearly highlighted, there are many factors that go into creating the perfect roller coaster. Even a slight mistake or change in certain aspects of the coaster could affect the integrity, making the coaster not able to be ridden.Therefore it is extremely important to be precise and understand the science behind making a roller coaster work. A roller coaster with the initial drop height 3.61m, a hill that is lower than that height being 2.5m, and a decently great mass to provide enough energy 55kg, it is sure to be the most fun roller coaster yet functional roller coaster.
