The Gonzales family should use my roller coaster design because it meets the criteria they are looking for. It is exciting, and the cart makes it to the end of the ride. The Gonzales family should have a roller coaster with a drop height of 3.61 m, because it will increase the amount of potential energy that is used to get the cart to the end without stopping. For example in Trial 1, the initial drop height of the roller coaster was 5.00 m. Which caused the speed at the bottom of the drop to be 9.85 m/s, and the speed at the top of the hill to be 6.35 m/s. In Trial 4, the drop height was 3.61 m. Which caused the speed at the bottom of the drop to be 8.40 m/s, and the speed at the top of the hill to be 3.48 m/s. This is important because the higher the Initial drop height, means the higher the speed, and the speed cannot exceed 8.40 m/s, otherwise the roller coaster is considered unsafe. As the cart moves through the ride, the Potential energy from the top of the drop converts to Kinetic energy at the bottom, because as the Law of Conservation of Energy states, energy cannot be created or destroyed. The total amount of energy is the amount of Potential and Kinetic Energy in total. For example, In Trial 1, when the drop was 5.00 m, the total amount of energy was 2443 J. In Trial 4, when the drop was 2.00 m the total amount of energy was 976 J. They should also add a hill in order for it to be more fun for the riders. The trials showed that a hill height of 3.00 m would have a total energy of 2466 J, when there is a 5.00 m drop height. The hill cannot be higher than the initial drop height, otherwise the cart will not make it over the hill. In Trial 3, when the hill height was 5.00 m, the coaster car did not make it over the hill. In Trial 2, when the hill height was 2.00 m, the coaster car made it to the end of the ride, because the hill height was not taller than the initial drop height. If the Gonzales family added the 3.00 m hill, with a 3.61 m drop height, the ride would be more fun, but still make it to the end of the ride. They should also add a loop. The loop cannot be higher than the initial drop height, because the car would not make it to the end of the ride. The loop height should be 2.75 m. The speed does not go too high, and it would still be fun for riders.The mass of the cart which holds the riders, should be 50 kg. Data showed that the higher the mass of the cart, the more total energy the cart would have. When the cart had a mass of 40 kg, the total amount of energy was lower. The mass of the cart has to be higher, in order for the coaster car to make it over the hill. The speed of the roller coaster car cannot exceed 8.40 m/s. The mass of the cart does not affect the speed of the coaster car. In Trial 1, when the mass of the cart was 50 kg, it went the same speed as Trial 3, when the mass of the cart was 60 kg. The roller coaster would have an initial drop height of 3.61 m, a hill height of 3 m, a loop height of 2.75, and a cart mass of 50 kg.The Gonzales family should use my roller coaster design because it meets the standards of the roller coaster they are looking for. 