Dear Gonzalez family, now that I have done more research I can give you the best, most fun ride while also being safe. First, the higher up you go for the initial drop the faster you will go and the total energy you will have. The higher the initial drop height the more potential energy you will have. The more potential energy you have the more kinetic energy and total energy you will have because potential energy + kinetic energy=total energy. An initial drop height of 3.61(m) will have enough potential energy to get over a hill of 3(m). You will also want to have the hill height at 3(m). You do this because the hill height needs to be shorter than the initial drop height or else the car will not have enough energy to get over the hill. When I did the test I saw that when the initial drop height was 5(m) and the hill was 5(m) the car did not make it over. But when the hill height was 4(m) and the initial drop height was 5(m) the car did make it over.  Knowing this we need an initial drop height that is tall enough to get over the hill but low enough where it is still safe. When I ran a test I saw that a drop height of 3.61(m) and a hill height of 3(m) was perfect. The speed was 8.41(m/s) at the bottom of the drop and that is the max speed we are allowed to have. Now that mass of the car. The more mass the car has the more energy it will have because when I had a car that had a mass of 40(kg) it only had 1958(J) at the top of the initial drop. But when I had a car that was 60(kg) it had a PE of 2973(J) but, the mass does not change the speed. I tested this out and when I had the mass at 40(kg) the speed at the bottom was 8.41(m/s). But when I tested the car mass at 60(kg) the speed was still 8.41(m/s). So because energy cannot be created or destroyed only transferred we know that a ride with an initial drop height of 3(m) and a hill height of 4(m) will not make it over the hill because we cannot get extra energy. Energy transfers from potential to kinetic energy as you are going down the hill. This was a friction less test so the real world might be different. 