If you want you're roller costar to work, here are some tips on how to make your roller costar able to be safe, and able for people to actually ride. You want to make sure that your initial drop height is able to make the cart go through the rest of the ride. If you have a drop height that is greater like 5m its speed could get up to 9.89 m/s. When you start at the top of the hill you will have more PE than KE, but once you start getting closer to the bottom/end of the ride, you will have more KE. The higher the initial drop is the more PE you are going to have. 
If you add additional hills to your ride you might want the initial height to be taller than the hill, that way the cart has enough speed o get over the hill. Once you get closer to the top o the hill in your roller coaster, your speed will decrease by a little, but once it's going down the hill, the speed will increase back up and you will be able to finish the ride. If you have a Initial height of 3.9m, then you will have more speed at the bottom and end of your ride at, 8.77m/s, and 6.76 m/s. 
If you were to change the initial drop height to a larger height like 2.8. Then you will only have speeds u to 7.48m/s, and 2.63m/s at the top of your hill. 
The thing with Mass is even if you put a mass of 50kg, the speeds will be 7.79m/s, and 3.57m/. But if you changed your mass to be 40kg your speeds are going to be the exact same. So the mass of the cart won't affect the speed throughout the ride. 
The larger your Mass (kg), you have the more PE, KE, and total speed you will have throughout the ride, at the top and bottom. So if you had a mass of 47kg, then your Energy will be, PE:1138, KE1136: Total Energy:1138. But if you had a mass of 55kg, then your Energy will be, PE:1347, KE:1343, Total Energy:1347. So the bigger the mass the more energy you will have throughout the ride. 
For the Law of Conservation, when you start with 1138J, at the initial drop for PE, at the end you still have 1138J, but it's at the bottom/end, so now it's more total energy. 
When you start with 1138.
So If you want you're roller costar to work, here are some tips on how to make your roller costar able to be safe. And able for people to actually ride than you may want to take these science tips, to help make sure that your ride is safe and fn for the people who are going to ride it. 
