 My recommendation to you Gonzales family is you make your initial drop height 3.61m tall. Your hill is going to have to be less than the height of your initial drop so I would recommend a height of about 3m. The loop I would recommend also being 3.5m, and for the mass of your car I recommend about 60kg in weight based on my investigations.
       I told you 3.61 for the initial drop because that is the tallest you can get without making the speed to fast where it is not safe. In my data I tested many different heights to see which would work best for the speed. When I had a height of 5m the speed at the bottom of the drop was 9.87m/s whereas when I did 3.61m the speed was 8.4m/s. The more height the more potential energy there is which means there is more PE to travel into KE as the car drops, the more KE the more speed there is. Your total energy can only be so much before the speed is to high and is not safe to ride. That is why 3.61m is the best option for you.
       The next part in your roller coaster is going to be a hill. I recommend a height of about 3m, you may be wondering why it can't be higher than the initial drop, and well it can but then the coaster car can't make it over the hill, not allowing it to finish the track. I don't even recommend having it super high because the higher it is the less kinetic energy you have making the ride go slower that's why I recommend 3m. According to my trials the hill of 3m had 1768J of potential energy and 582J of kinetic whereas 4.5 had 2276J potential energy but only 73J of kinetic energy. So you can see there will be more speed if your hill is shorter but you also want it to be enjoyable so 3m is a good in between height. The law of conservation of energy shows this because it states that energy can neither be created nor destroyed and only be transferred from one form of energy to another. So you can see the total energy of the hill needs to be low enough so it can have speed but high enough to have the Kinetic and Potential energy.
       Another part of your track is the loop. I recommended 3.5m for the height of it. I chose this height because it will not be taller than your initial drop so it will have enough total energy to make it through the entire loop. And I didn't want to make it to small where it would not get a lot of speed. The total energy being greater allows the coaster car to gain more speed as it goes down the hill, it will then have more kinetic energy as it goes through the loop as well.
       The mass I recommend for your coaster car is 60kg because in my trials I found that the greater the mass of your car the more energy it will have. For example, one of my tests was with a car that was 45kg, the amount of energy it had at the beginning was 2182J. Whereas the amount the car with a mass of 60kg had 2934J of potential energy at the initial drop height, which means it will have more total energy. So you can see the coaster car is more likely to go faster if it has a greater mass. I also found in my trial the mass of the car does not affect the speed. When I tested my track that I have shown you the speed stayed the same with every weight for example with 40kg the speed at the end of the ride was 8.39m/s and when I did it with 60kg the speed was also 8.39m/s.
        As you can see Gonzales, the heights and masses I have provided you are good for everything you are looking for in the roller coaster. that makes it safe and fast enough to be enjoyable for your clients.