Dear, Gonzales family
Our team has amazing recommendations for your roller coaster design. That will make your roller coaster the best in a design way and an exciting way.

One recommendation that we have to you is that the initial drop will affect the TE. Because the higher the initial drop is the more TE it will have which means more KE and more speed from that PE. And, the more PE there is the more KE there will be since throughout the coaster it will transfer from KE to PE. Like in a 5m high initial drop the coaster had 2443J PE and at a height of 2m it only had 977J. So overall its more fun.

Another recommendation that we have to you is that you will need to make the hill height shorter than the initial drop because if the hill height is equal or higher than the initial drop the car won't fully make it to the end. Because, as the car is going down the hill it won't have enough PE to make it up the higher hill. Like when the initial drop and the hill height were both 5m the car didn't make it all the way to the end. But when the hill height was like 1-4m the car made it to the end. So overall it means it will be better. 

Another recommendation that we have to you is the more mass the car has the more TE it will have which means more KE and PE. And the more PE it has the more KE it has so it can get across the length of the track faster and better. Because, the more PE a car has the more KE it will turn into throughout the ride. Like a car with a mass of 60kg has 2777J TE with a 40kg car only has a 1958J TE. But, will keep that TE throughout the whole ride. So, overall more fun.  

Another recommendation that we have to you is that the law of conservation of energy states that "Energy cannot be created or destroyed, but it can convert from one type of energy to another". Which means the TE will stay the same throughout the whole ride but the only thing that will change is the conversion from the PE to KE but it will still have the same TE throughout the whole ride. Like it doesn't matter if the hill height is short or high or if the initial drop is short or high no matter what the TE will be the same throughout the whole ride. Like when the TE was 2443J or less that stayed the same throughout the whole ride all it did was change the PE to KE. 

Another recommendation that we have to you is that the speed you want has to be less than or equal to 8.4 m/s is a safe ride for everyone. But, a speed lower than 6.4 m/s won't make the ride as fun. So, you have to make the speed in-between 8.4 m/s and 6.4 m/s. To make it actually fun. 

The final recommendation that we have to you is the mass of the car won't affect the speed that the car will move the mass will only affect the TE. So, like a 60kg will have more TE, PE, and KE than a 40kg car. But, that mass won't affect the speed at which the coaster car will be traveling at. Because mathematically the height and the velocity will affect the speed of the car and the PE which will transfer into KE.

In, conclusion these were 6 amazing recommendations my team and I have for you to make your roller coaster be the best and feel the best. 
