Hello Gonzales family,
I have discovered that the most optimal roller coaster design involves an initial drop height of 5.00. It is essential to ensure that the hill height is not greater than the hill itself. At the top of the initial drop, the potential energy would be 2243, while the kinetic energy would be at 0. As the cart starts to move down the hill, the kinetic energy would be 2243, and the potential energy would be 0. These two forms of energy have a significant impact on the total amount of energy. The greater the potential energy, the greater the kinetic energy, resulting in a greater effect on the total amount of energy. If a coaster cart with a mass of 60 begins to move downhill, there is a change in both its kinetic and potential energy. For instance, if the potential energy at the top of the hill is 2937, the kinetic energy at the bottom of the hill would be 2,930. This change occurs due to the cart's increased speed as it moves downhill, caused by its mass. The law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, but can only be transformed between potential and kinetic forms. I've learned that the height of the hill cannot exceed the height of the initial drop. For instance, if the initial drop height is 4.59 and the hill height is 5.00, the coaster cart won't be able to go over the hill. The amount of mass, potential energy, and kinetic energy are interrelated, as they all play a crucial role in assisting the coaster cart to traverse over the hill. Based on research, it has been determined that the most efficient height for a roller coaster design is an initial height of 5.00. I've tested out new designs and have learned to get a safe and fun rollercoaster speed the initial drop height should be at 3.27 and the hill height should be at  3.22 I decided this because when I tried 3.90 for an initial drop and a 3.30 for a hill height the speed was over 8.4 (not safe for a rollercoaster) Then if I tried adding another hill the speed would just go over the max speed. Potential energy and Kinetic energy switch back and forth helping the total energy increase, while the total energy increases so does the speed helping the coaster cart get over the hill at an efficient speed. The law of conservation of energy affects my design decisions because Potential Energy and Kinetic Energy switch back around over and over. I hope my studies have helped you decide what to do 
Best regards 