My claim is that I can help the Gonzalez family make a safe and thrilling roller coaster. To have a safe roller coaster you have to make sure that the cart is safe and that the drops and twists are safe as well. You also need to have enough energy from the initial drop to make it all the way to the end of the roller coaster. When thinking of energy the only way for the cart to make it to the end is to have a high and fast initial drop. When the drop is higher there is more Potential energy stored. Then when the cart drops the stored PE converts into Kinetic energy allowing the cart to get to the end. In the roller coaster simulation the highest drop (5.00) had the total energy of 2443 and but in my roller coaster I will have the drop at 3.50 because of the safety. The cart can only go a certain amount of speed and if it goes over it could be unsafe for the passengers. for my simulator I had to keep the speed under 8.4 meters per second. When I tested the drop height of 3.50 and the hill height of 3.00 the energy was 8.27. This speed is safe but also close to the limitations so it will make the roller coaster thrilling. 

The next thing you need is a hill. When thinking of a roller coaster hill they usually give you air time which is the friction at the top of the hill giving you a small slow down before you drop again. When creating my design I wanted the hill to be as high as it could while still being safe. But when you are building a hill, the hill cannot be higher than the initial drop. The hill also cannot be the same height. If the hill were higher or the same height the cart would not be able to get over it. This is because there is not enough stored energy from the drop to make it to the top of the hill that is the same or higher. 

When you have a hill that is a great height to make it over then it will be perfect for the roller coaster. When the cart is nearing the top of the hill the potential and kinetic energy evens out to equal the total energy. For example, when the hill was 4.25, at the top the PE was 2083 and the KE was 365 equaling to 2448.  As soon as the cart gets over the hill the potential energy starts to decrease again. In my simulator when I tested the 5.00 drop and the 5.00 hill the cart didn't make it over. But when I tested the 5.00 drop and the 2.00 it would be a boring ride. The best option for the roller coaster is the 3.50 initial drop and the hill at 3.00. This is allowing a safe drop and a safe hill that is a little bit smaller so the cart will get over. When thinking to both drops the potential energy starts with all the energy the roller coaster has.

 At the top of the initial drop, the potential energy is the total energy and the KE is 0. then as the cart goes down the potential energy is 0 and the kinetic energy is the total. But when the energy converts it is never adding more energy. This goes with the Law of Conservation. The Law of Conservation states, ¨Energy cannot be created or destroyed This means that the total energy will always stay the same no matter if the potential energy is higher or the kinetic. 

Another thing you need for your roller coaster is the mass of the cart. The car with the greatest mass will have the greatest Potential energy at the top of the initial drop. The cart with the greatest mass also had the greatest kinetic energy at the bottom of the drop. In my simulation the 60 kg cart had the greatest amount of energy over the 40 kg cart. Even though the 60 kg cart has more energy when actually riding the roller coaster the mass doesn't matter. the equation for this is ¨ mass x gravity x height = 1/2 x mass  x velocity 2.¨ The cart is only going through an energy conversion and the mass inst changing at all during the roller coaster. The only effect having a larger mass for your roller coaster cart is that it will have a greater potential energy at the start, and it will be harder to slow down.  In conclusion you now know how roller coasters energy works and you now see that I can make a very fun and safe roller coaster. 