To the Gonzales family. 

This is the Angle roller coaster company, and i'm going to tell you about the coolest roller coaster ever. I will explain the science behind it and what there will be(hills and drop height, plus the mass of the coaster).

The initial drop will be at 3.75 meters because the height of the initial drop affects the amount of energy, the higher the height the more the energy. I know this because in my tests I found out that an initial drop with 2 meters has 977 PE. While a height of 4.62 meters has 2255 PE. This shows that the height of the initial drop affects the amount of energy. I also don't want the height to be to big, because I know that a human can't withstand 8.7 m/s. This initial drop will give around 8.5 m/s. 

The more PE there is the more KE there will be. I know this because in one of my tests the amount of PE on the top of the initial drop was 1956, and the amount of KE at the bottom was 1954. This means the PE transfers to KE when the roller coaster is going down the initial drop, also called energy transformation. That's why the initial drop is going to be high.  

I also found that the total energy didn't change even when the PE changed to KE. In one of my many tests the PE was 1785 at the top (the same as the TE) of the initial drop and 1784 at the bottom of the initial drop, which was also the same as the TE. The amount of PE at the top of the initial drop will be the same amount of KE at the bottom, during this process the amount of TE stays the same. This proves that the amount of TE does not change. The law of conservation of energy  also proves this. The law of conservation of energy  says that “the amount of energy is neither created nor destroyed." This proves that the TE will stay the same.
 
I am going to add 1 hill, it will be 3.5 meters tall. The hill will have to be below the height of the initial drop because if the hill is higher or the same height as the initial drop, the coaster will not make it over the hill. This is because in one of my tests I had the hill at 5 meters and the initial drop at 5 meters. The coaster did not make it over the hill because the hill and drop were the same height. I want the hill to be 43 meters because they are tall but not tall enough for the coaster not to make it over. The reason I want it this tall is because the higher the hill, the more PE. On my 4th test it shows that the hill height is 4.10 meters, and has a PE of 2014 at the top of the hill. My third test has a height of 2 meters and has a PE of 981. This shows that the higher the hill, the more PE which also means more KE as explained previously. 

Also, the mass of the roller coaster has to be above 55 kg. The mass of the roller coaster (in kg) affects the amount of total energy. If the coaster has a higher mass it will have more energy. This has been proven from my third and forth tests in Mass & Energy data, the mass in the third was 60 kg and had a total energy of 2934. The 4th test had 55 kg of mass and had a total energy of 2690. This shows that the amount of mass affects the amount of energy. 

I figured that the amount of mass doesn't effect the speed, only the energy. I know this because in my tests 
I found that a car mass of 60 kg drop at a initial drop of 3.5 m, it went 8.27 m/s at the bottom. A car mass of 40 kg also dropped at 3.5 m has a speed of 8.27 m/s. But in another one of my tests, I figure that having a higher initial drop would give more speed. I know this because I had a initial drop of 5 m and it had a speed of 9.89 m/s. I then had a initial drop of 4 m and it had a speed of 8.84 m/s. That's why I have the initial drop so high. 

With these amazing features and that it will go fast, this is the best roller coaster. I have put a lot of thought into this and hope these recommendations will be helpful. 

Sincerely the Angle company.
