Dear Gonzales family, 
During the roller coaster and energy analysis. We have learned all about potential energy, kinetic energy, total energy, car energy/mass, initial drops, hills, etc. We have also done multiple different simulations to advance our learning in these categories. 

First, we did some learning with initial drops as well as a simulation. In the simulation, I found that the higher the release height the more potential energy the coaster car has at the top of the initial drop, and the lower the initial drop release height is the lower the potential energy. The higher the potential energy at the top of the initial drop the more kinetic energy the coaster car had at the bottom. I also noticed throughout the simulation that the potential energy also is the same number as the total energy, The total energy is all the energy that the rollercoaster can reach. For example, the release height of 2.00 had less potential energy (977 J) and the release height of 5.00 meters had 2443 J of potential energy at the top of the initial drop. As the coaster car goes down the drop all the energy changes into kinetic energy to give the rollercoaster the power to make it over the hill. 

The second simulation we did deal with adding a hill to the initial drop. I found that the initial drop had to be taller than the hill following that initial drop. If the hill was higher or the same as the drop the coaster car would not make it over. For example, I did a hill height of 5.00 meters with the initial drop height staying the same throughout the simulation being 5.00 meters. The coaster car didn't have enough energy to make it over the hill and to the end. Unlike the height of 3.70 meters had enough potential and kinetic energy to make it over the hill and then to the end of the track. 

In the next simulation we did we learned about the mass and energy of the coaster car. During the simulation, I tested a small mass, 2 medium masses, and 1 heavy mass of a coaster car. I found that the heavy-mass car (60kg) had the most potential energy but was the slowest when tested. Compared to the car with the least mass, in this case, 40kg. This coaster car had the least potential energy with 1958 J of energy. The more mass the coaster car has the less the speed will be.

During our last simulations, we tested drop height and speed along with mass and speed. I found that it affects the energy, the higher the initial drop the more energy there will be. It affects the total amount of energy because the lower the initial drop the less total energy there will be for example, the initial drop height of 4.72m had 9.45m/s at the bottom of the drop compared to the initial drop height of 3.30m had a speed at the bottom of the drop with 8.03m/s. 
Next, we tested additional hills with our hill height. I found that the best way to add additional hills is to have the hill shorter than the initial drop, to make sure that the coaster car makes it over the hill and to the end of the rollercoaster. Changing the height of the initial drop affects the speed so if I were to change the hill height to something taller than the initial drop it wouldn't have enough energy to make it to the end. 

Next in our mass and speed simulation, we tested the mass of the coaster car. I found that no matter the mass of the car it still had the same speed as the other cars. The car with a mass of 60kg still had a speed of 9.38m/s at the bottom of the drop and at the end of the ride just like the car of 40kg. 

Lastly, we tested energy. The law of conservation of energy affects my design choices because I have to have an initial drop that is not higher than the hill and doesn't go over the speed of 8.4 m/s, to be a fun but safe ride. PE, KE, and total energy affects the ride because you have to have enough friction and energy at the same time, to keep the people on the rollercoaster safe but also make sure they have fun. 

During these simulations, I have learned that energy cannot be created nor destroyed but it can change, according to the law of conservation of energy. At first, the rollercoaster has all potential energy and no kinetic before going down the initial drop. Then when it makes it way down it changes into kinetic energy to continue on with the ride. This shows that the energy can be transfered but is never destroyed.