after a couple more days of test ride and learning more i have made adjustments to my ride to make it more exiting. in are simulation we have worked with mass and speed and drop height and speed. the cart i chose this time is a 60kg cart still because we leaned that Mass does not effect the speed no matter what the height is. But in are test we tested different masses and they all were the same even if they was a huge weight gap. because in the velocity equation it cancels out.  but i kept it heavy because the higher the mass of the car will give it more energy the 60kg car had a total energy of 2356 but the 40kg cart only had 1567 total energy. Then the ride will start up in the air at a drop of 3.5 meters tall. the PE is high on the top and the KE is high on the bottom. Because in labs we learned the is more PE and on the top and  bottom there is more KE. It needs more energy for longer distances. KE and PE are opposite when goes down the other goes up and when you add that gives the total energy. so I chose that height because it worked the best in the labs when it came to energy and speed. And I did not want it to tall because the higher the height the higher the PE then in middle the transfer takes place on bottom the KE is highest. and the faster it goes, but if it went to fast that would be dangerous and it is still pretty tall i wanted it to be tall because The higher initial drop height the more PE and on the bottom there is more KE. It needs more energy for longer distances. KE and PE are opposite when goes down the other goes up and when you add that gives the total energy.  then when you are all the way down the drop there will be a hill and thats were   law of conservation come isl aw of conversation can not be created or destroyed. But it can convert from one type of energy to another about the height of the hill is 3.0m i chose this becasue this was the fastest i could meke it using 3.5m drop it goes as fast as 8.27 m/s  if it went over 8.4m/s it could be dangerous so this ride is very fast then using that speed and energy it will go around a litle loop at the height of 2.0m then that is were the ride ends. throughout the ride there is zero fraction the ride is called Deklan the destroyer hope you like it 