 The roller coaster I think you should build is the initial drop at 3.50, the hill height at 3.00 and the mass of the cart at 60 kg. I think this because when the mass of the cart was 60 kg the roller coaster has more energy the cart will move faster. If you change the mass of a roller coaster the velocity will change the heavier it is the faster it will go the more mass the more speed. If the height of the initial drop was more than 3.50 the speed would be to high and it would cause serous injury. Speed and mass have no connection. Mass and velocity have a connection . When the mass of the car was 40 kg the car went 8.27 and the bottom of the initial drop when the mass of the car was 60 kg the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.27. The hill height has to be lower than the initial drop height other wise the cart wont be able to make it over the hill. The best way to add additional hills would be to always have them lower than the initial drop. 
 When the car is moving down the hill the PE will get lower and the KE will get higher. This is because the car is moving and the faster the car is moving the higher the KE will be. The Law of Conservation of Energy states "energy cannot be created or destroyed, but it can convert from one type to another". The KE + PE = TE . The PE and KE added together will always have to be the TE because like the Law of Conservation says that energy cannot be destroyed. An example of this is when the drop height was 2.00 the PE at the top of the drop was 977J the KE was 0. At the end of the initial drop the KE was 976 and the PE was 1. So the KE and PE always have to add up to the TE.
KE + PE = TE. The energy keeps the roller coaster moving. If there is little energy the cart wont go very fast or be able to go over many hills.
An example of this is when the initial drop height was 5.00 and the hill height was 5.00 the cart did not make it to the end. The hill height always has to be less than the initial drop height, if its not the cart wont be able to go over the hill and make it to the end. 
When the cart is at the top of the initial drop and the height higher the PE will greater and the KE will be 0J because the cart is not moving. At the bottom of the drop the KE will be the PE at the beginning -1J because the PE can never be 0 J. An example of this is when the drop height was 5.00 the PE at the top was 2443 J, the KE at the bottom was 2442 J and the PE was 1 J. When the mass is higher the TE will be higher. An example of this is when the mass was 60 kg the TE was 2937 J and when the mass was 40 kg the TE was 1958 J. As you move down the hill the KE will be getting greater and the PE will be getting smaller. This is because when you are going faster you will have more KE. 
So in conclusion the roller coaster I think you should build is the initial drop at 3.50, the hill height at 3.00 and the mass of the cart at 60 kg. 