            On the roller coaster that the Gonzales family is going to make, there needs to be certain things to ensure that the ride runs smoothly. And that the people on the ride make it back and don't, get sick, injured, or even worse. There are multiple factors that go into that and in this essay I am going to explain the different factors that are put into the building of the roller coaster. I know that if I was choosing a roller coaster to go on and I had to choose between 2. And one was tall and fast while also safe. And another one was shorter and slower but still safe. I would choose the faster and taller one. So adding huge drops and a whole bunch of hills will make the roller coaster look super fun and exciting. But the impact that it will have on peoples bodies after the ride is over is not worth the loops and hills. So, on the roller coaster that the Gonzales family builds. The initial drop should be 3.60 m, the hill should be 3 m, and the loop should be 3 m as well. 

          The first variable that needs to be included in the roller coasters track/design is the initial drop. If there is a hill on the roller coaster track, the hill needs to be shorter then the initial drop of the roller coaster. I learned in my data that when the initial drop was 4 m, and the hill height was 3.25, the roller coaster made it over the hill. When the initial drop was 4 m, and the hill height was 5 m, the roller coaster did not make it over the hill and it didn't make it to the end of the track. So, in the roller coaster that the Gonzales family should make, the initial drop of 3.60 m and the hill/loop height of 3 m will ensure that the car makes it over the hill and loop and make it to the end safely. 

         When the initial drop height was higher, the more total energy it had. In my data I found that when the release height was 2 m, the potential energy at the top of the hill was 821 J and the KE at the bottom of the hill was 820 J. When the release height was 4.75 m, the potential energy was 1950 J at the top of the hill and the KE was 1949 J at the bottom of the hill. So that shows that the relationship between release height and PE is when the release height is higher, the total energy is higher. The speed of the car also needs to be considered when making the roller coaster. The speed that will be safe is 8.4 m/s or less. So, when building the initial drop height, the speed needs to be included in making sure that the ride is safe. When the hill height was 3.60 m the speed of the car was 8.39 m/s which makes the ride safe but it is very very close to the max speed that the roller coaster can be. When the initial drop was 3.61, the speed at the bottom was 8.41 m/s which is .1 over, but that still matters and can make the roller coaster dangerous. Making the initial drop height taller, will make the speed also go up. The initial drop of 5 m had the speed of 9.89 m/s at the end of the ride. But the 3.60 m had the speed lower that would make the ride safe. As the initial drop height goes up, so does the speed. 

     The relationship between KE, PE, and total energy, effect the ride because when the ride has more energy the higher the initial drop is. The amount of KE and PE will ALWAYS = the amount of total energy no matter where you are in the roller coaster. In my data, when the initial drop was 4 m, the PE at the top was 1643 J. When the cart made it to the top of the hill which was 3.25 m, the PE was 1341 J. But, the 302 J of energy didn't just go away, it transferred to KE and the KE was 302 J. The Law of Conservation of Energy says that energy can not be created or destroyed so the amount of total energy at the top will be the same of energy at the bottom. Energy is not destroyed during the ride, when the potential energy goes down in the ride the energy transfers to kinetic energy. So if the roller coaster wants to have a ton of energy, having a really tall initial drop would be the best way to do that. Because the energy will always be the same total energy so having a large amount of energy will make the ride better. 

           The amount of PE at the top of the hill was always more then the KE at the top of the hill in the trials that I did. But as the roller coaster went down, the energy switched to KE. At the initial drop in my trial when the drop was 4 m, the potential energy was 1642 J, at the bottom of the hill it all converted over to KE minus 1 J. 

          The mass of the cart effects the KE and PE. When the car weighs more, the more KE and PE the roller coaster is going to have. In my trial, when the car weighed 44 kg, the total energy was 1723 J. And, when the mass was 56 kg, the total energy was 2193 J. So that shows that the more mass the cart is the more energy the roller coaster is gonna have. 

           The speed of the roller coaster is not effected by the mass of the car. When there is no friction it does not matter. When there is friction it does effect the ride. During the experiment I did with the simulations, I put the mass of the car at 50 kg and the speed at the bottom was 8.39 m/s. Then I put the speed at 60 kg and the speed at the bottom was also 8.39 m/s. The KE and PE change throughout the ride, but the mass of the car never changes. So, in the roller coaster that the Gonzales family makes, if there is no friction, the mass can be whatever. 

           The Gonzales family should make a roller coaster with the initial drop of 3.60 m. The hill/loop height of 3 m and the mass can be whatever because it does not effect the speed. The speed can not be more then 8.40 m/s otherwise the roller coaster will not be safe, and with these heights the roller coaster will be fun, exciting, and safe. If the initial drop goes higher, it will not be safe. 

            