Dear Gonzales Family,
I have made a roller coaster that I think will be perfect for you. This coaster is safe, fast, thrilling, and most of all a fun roller coaster for all riders. Let us start by going through some of the coaster parts.

First the height, on this coaster we have an initial drop to start the ride. The drop is the first thing riders experience so we want the drop to make the riders want to keep riding and ride the coaster again. When it comes to energy there are two main types PE and KE. PE is also known as potential energy like if you thought of an apple tree, the higher the apple on the tree the more PE the apple will have because it is higher off the ground. The apple will have more time to gain speed and kinetic energy as it is falling. KE is known as kinetic energy and it is most of the time related to PE. How to remember KE is to think about a ladder and if you were climbing that ladder with a watermelon and when you let it go the watermelon goes everywhere. Thinking back to the initial drop and energy when you are going up the hill you are gaining PE then when you go down the hill you are losing the PE and gaining KE. so when you think about the drop all that is happening is the PE and KE are switching. The drop height affects the energy because the higher the drop the more energy you have. Next up on our ride, we have hills but you have to be carful when putting hills in because the car needs to make it over. If we had a hill height of 2.00M and a drop height of 5.00M there is a difference of 3.00M which means your car would make it over the hill with no problem but if you had a drop height of 2.50M and a hill height of  3.37M your car would not make it to the end of the ride because the hill height is higher then the drop height. As you can see when putting in hills you have to make sure the hill height is shorter then the drop height, if the hill height is taller then the drop height your car will not make it to the end. You also want to make sure you coaster doesnt go to fast and kill your riders  so you will have to change the drop height to make. but also the hill isnt to high and your car makes it to the end. One last thing is the law of conservation, this is not a law like speeding but what this is saying is that no new energy can be formed and no energy can be lost and never come back.
 Next big thing on a coaster is mass, when it comes to mass and energy most people would think that the heavier the more energy but as the resalts show that really doesnt matter. The mass of the car also does not affect the speed of the car like most people think lets say  your car had a mass of 40kgs and at the bottom of the drop the speed was 8.21m/s and the speed at the top of the hill is 4.29m/s  at the end of the ride the speed was 8.20 but with a mass of 45 the speed at the end was the same as the 40. PE and KE switch during the ride. PE+KE=TE(total energy). Total energy it the KE and PE added together. The energy just switches for PE to KE and back again till the ride is over