Dear Gonzales Family,

This is my findings on what type of roller coaster you will need to build.

The PE KE and total energy works,  more mass equals more energy. The initial height of the drop needs to be higher than the hill.

The drop height of my roller coaster design is  5 meters.  This is important because 5 meters gives us the highest PE.
 For example, when I tested the drop height of 2.5 meters, the PE was 1222 Joules. When I increased the drop height to 5 meters, the PE increased at 2444 Joules.

PE+KE=TE.  My data supports this equation. In the  hill simulation my roller coaster had 2445 J of PE at the top of the initial drop. It had 2445 J of KE at the bottom of the initial drop.  I had 2445 J of total energy at the end of the ride. 

The law of conservation of energy states that whatever energy you start with you end with. This means that energy will transfer from potential energy to  kinetic energy. This will happen throughout the ride.

Any hills that are added to the ride must be lower as compared to the initial drop height. 
You can see this in my data. When I tested a drop height of  5 m and a hill height of 5 m, the roller coaster car did not make it over the hill. However, when I tested a drop height of 5 m and a hill height of 2 m, the roller coaster car made it.

Our last experiment was comparing mass and energy. The low the mass of the car, the higher the total energy.  When I used a car that had a mass of 40 kg, the roller coaster had 1958 J of total energy. When I used a car that had a mass of 60 kg, the roller coaster car had a total energy of 2938 kg.
The initial drop height should be 3.61 m. The higher the initial drop height, the more energy there will be. This initial drop height is also important to keep the ride safe. A drop height of 3.61 m will give you a speed of 8.40m/s.

Any hills and loops that follow need to be lower than the initial drop height. it needs to get over the loop and hill if it's higher than the initial drop it won't make it at the end.

For this reason, the hill height should be 2.5 m.

Car mass will impact the ride but not the speed . I know this because when the mass was 40 kg, the energy was 8.4 m/s and the speed was 8.4 m/s. However, when the mass was 60 kg, the energy was 8.4 m/s and the speed was 8.4 m/s.