Dear Gonzales family, I have finished my research and found the perfect roller coaster for you to make. The speed of the roller coaster couldn't exceed 8.4 m/s but I made sure it was exciting by making sure it at least went a speed of 6.7m/s at some point in the ride. Starting with the initial drop, I chose a height of 3.5 meters. A higher initial drop gives the cart more total energy and more speed at the bottom. My height of 3.5 meters pushed the limits with a speed of 8.27m/s at the bottom of the drop.This speed will make riders very happy but won't be dangerous. Next is the hill, which I chose a height of 3 meters. I chose this because the hill can't be higher than the initial drop. This is because their wouldn't be enough speed if the hill was higher or the same height.. A high hill height will keep riders excited throughout the ride. I also chose to add a loop before the end of the ride. The loop was also 3 meters high. I chose the loop to be 3 meters high because like the hill it keeps the riders happy and excited right to the end. I also chose the cart mass to be 55 kg. There isn't much reason behind it other than it being more of a middle of the range weight. Although height and mass both affect PE and KE, only height affects speed. Since mass doesn't affect speed, it really doesn't matter what the mass is. As shown in my data, a cart with the mass of 40 kg has less total energy than a cart with 60 kg but when it comes to speed they both had a top speed of 8.27 m/s on a 3.5 meter drop. You may think that the cart with 60 kg affects your ride because it has more total energy but it doesn't affect it at all. More energy doesn't make it so the cart can go any higher or go any faster. The Law of Conservation helped my roller coaster decision by making it easier to understand what I could and couldn't do for heights of the drop, hill height, and loop. It helped me with this because energy can only be transferred between PE and KE in my tests. This tells me that I can't have a hill height or loop higher or the same height as my initial drop.