Dear Gonzales Family: I have informed you on a final decision on what the roller coaster should look like and how it will function. I have considered some new factors to edge into this coaster. One of these things is to look out for the safety of the riders. In order for a rider to be safe the speed must be between 6.7(M/S) and 8.4(M/S). I also want to say that the mass does not affect the speed of the roller coaster. I know all of this information from the trial results I will be showing you to prove these theories.

The first part of the roller coaster will start off with a 3.5 meter initial height. I know from in the Simulation (Add a Hill) The trial results show when the initial drop height was 50 meters it had less energy throughout the simulation. When it was 2 meters high it had 904(J) of energy while 5 meters high had 2400(J) of energy. It is also 3.5 meters because anything more than 3.61 the rider on the roller coaster would be in danger because of the speed that a human cannot handle very well. Then the coaster cart will be a total of 60 kg, so it will have more energy. I know this because in the mass vs energy simulation when the car was 60 kg it had a total of around 2900(J) of total energy. While when the mass was 50 kg it had around 2400(J). Although the mass of the cart does not affect the speed. Once the cart is down from the initial drop it will go into a 3 meter tall loop. I know the cart will overcome this obstacle because the potential energy turns into kinetic once it goes down the initial drop.  At the top of the loop the height is less than my initial drop. I know this because as stated in the Law of Conservation it states energy cannot be created or destroyed. I also know this because in the add a hill simulation my initial height for all trials was 4 m, in one of my trials the hill height was 5 meters tall and the coaster failed to make it over the hill. But then when the hill was 3 meters tall it went over. This proves 2 different ways how the initial height has to be higher than the loop itself. Another aspect of the science behind my roller coaster is that the total energy will be the same throughout the entire run. Although kinetic energy and potential energy will go up and down throughout the run. When the roller coaster goes down a hill it loses all of its potential when it gets to the bottom. But as it gets up the hill the kinetic energy then turns into potential I know this throughout the trial initial drop. In this simulation it shows little to no potential energy at the bottom and the kinetic energy being about the same as total energy. Then comes the hill, the last part to this coaster ride. The hill will be 3.25 meters high. The roller coaster will definitely make it through this obstacle because the Law of Conservation comes into play. In the Law of Conservation it states energy cannot be created or destroyed. Another way to prove it will go over comes from the simulation of the trial add a hill. In that trial when I added a hill above the initial height the roller coaster therefore did not have enough energy to make it over the hill. However when It was below the height of the hill the roller coaster overcame the obstacle every time.  And throughout this entire trial it would be beneficial to have no friction because it transfers both kinetic and potential energy into thermal energy making it harder to get up hills and loops.

In the end Science and the Law Of Conservation proves that his roller coaster will be fully functional and all riders will have a great and amazing time riding it safely.