Dear Gonzales Family, I propose that the total amount of energy at the bottom and top of the initial drop should be the same but the KE and PE should be different. Also the higher the initial drop height the greater amount of potential energy.  For example, in trial number 2 the amount of KE is 0, the amount of PE is 1466 J and the TE is 1466 J. This was at the beginning of the ride, when PE and KE are added they should always equal the TE. At the bottom of this same ride, the PE is at 1 and the KE is at 1465 J, when added they equal 1466 J. This shows that the total energy stays the same the whole ride. The Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. This is true because the total amount of energy in trial 2 begins at 1959 J and ends at 1959 J, while the energy is transformed from PE to KE.  

When a hill is added to a rollercoaster the hill's height has to be less than the initial drop or the car will not make it over. For example in trial number 3 when the drop height and hill height are the same, the car doesn't have enough energy to make it over the hill. This is because it doesn't have the extra energy from the initial drop because it already used it up trying to get over the hill that is the same height. When a roller coaster car goes down the initial drop and then up a hill, the energy is converted back and forth from KE and PE. This happens in trial number 2 which states the PE at the top of the initial drop is 1958 J and the KE is 0 J. When the roller coaster car reaches the top of the hill it doesn't come to a complete stop the PE is 1228 J and the KE is 727 J, and the total energy stays the same. This shows that the energy is converted from KE and PE because no energy is added or subtracted. 

The mass of the roller coaster car also affects the KE and PE. For example, a car of 40kg has a total energy of 1567 J while a car of 60 kg has a total energy of 2350 J. This shows that the mass of the roller coaster car affects how much total energy there is. 

The speed of a roller coaster is very important it has fun but is safe at the same time, so fast but not too fast. The speed of a roller coaster car is dependent on the height of the initial drop, the higher the drop the faster the car goes. For example, in trial 1 the initial drop height was 5m and the max speed was 9.88 m/s but in trial 4 the height of the initial drop was 3.5 m and the max speed was 8.27 m/s. This show that the height of the initial drop affects how fast the roller coaster car goes.

The speed of a roller coaster car is not affected by the mass of the said car. For example, in trial 1 the mass of the car was 60 kg and the max speed was 8.27 m/s, in trial 2 the max speed was also 8.27 m/s, and in the last 2 trials, the max speed was still the same. This shows that the mass of the roller coaster car does not affect the speed.

In conclusion, the roller coaster should have an initial drop higher than the hill and the mass of the roller coaster should depend on how much energy you want the ride to have. Also, the height of the roller coaster affects the speed of the rollercoaster car, not the mass.
