Dear, 
Gonzalez family

In this letter, I will be teaching you and telling you about the best possible roller coaster design that our team has tested so far. So in the proses of making a roller coaster, the roller coaster should start off with an initial drop you want to start with an initial drop because it will create more energy throughout the whole ride. The energy part is the most confusing but once I teach you then you will start to understand it. So at the top of an initial drop, there is a lot of potential energy 1955 (PE) this was all of the energy that was stored up. The other type of energy is kinetic energy and there was 1954 (KE) this was stored when the roller coaster got to the bottom of the drop. All of the total energy 1955 j we just talked about is in the law of conservation because it can't be destroyed or created. So we now know that we need an initial drop at the beginning of our roller coaster. But the roller coaster would be boring if it just had an initial drop so if we add a hill into the coaster this is when we put our knowledge about the energy into place. Therefore if we add a hill we need to make it so the cart can get over. So in order to do that we need to take the height of the initial drop and make the hill smaller so the cart has enough energy to get over. We also learned that the mass of a roller coaster cart does not affect the overall speed the thing that affects the speed is the initial drop height. In the data, we saw that when the initial drop was 5M tall the speed was 9.88m/s and that is not a safe speed for people riding the coaster. So we tested multiple times until we got something either at 8.40m/s or unser and the initial drop height was 3.25M which we found was a safe speed for the riders on the coaster. When the roller coaster starts to come to an end after all that we just talked about we need a safe spot to slow the cart down. At the end of the roller coaster, we will have a little part of the track where the cart will just go straight so the cart can slow down safely.