Dear Gonzales family heres somethings that you should consider to make the best roller coaster and why my roller coaster has them. I will be telling you what needs to be meet to have the best roller coaster aka mine. The roller coaster should have an initial drop in the roller coaster. It should have a bunch of PE and KE energy in it to make it the best roller coaster. When the roller coaster has a lot of PE and KE energy the initial drop has to be really high.  The roller coaster also has to have a hill be lower then the initial drop. When the hill is taller then you get roll backs. Roll backs is when the roller coaster can't get all the way up the hill. My roller coaster will have 1 hill, one loop.

The first thing you need to know so you can pick the best roller coaster is  PE and KE. PE is Potential energy and KE is kinetic energy. When you have more energy you have higher hills and initial drops. My hills go up about 4 m tall and have a total of 2448 energy . My initial drop is 5 m tall and has a total of 2443 energy. Our loopy loops are about 3 m tall. You will want to pick ours because when you have a higher hill, initial drop, and loopy loops you get more PE and KE. The total energy doesn't get destroyed nor created after the roller coaster was run. Because of the PE energy going down and the KE energy was going up then the total energy still stayed the same because the energy was never destroyed.

The next thing you want to know is that the weight of the cart also has more energy. When the weight of the cart is heavier then the cart will have more energy. When my cart weighed 60 kgs it had a total of 2937 energy. But when the cart weighed 40 kgs it only had a total of 1958 energy. You want more energy because then it goes faster and is more fun.

The next thing you would want to consider is that the height of the hill has to be a certain height without the speed going over 8.4 m/s. When the speed goes over it is unfit for humans to survive. The taller the initial drop height is the speed is going to go up. Even though the best height for a hill is 5 m, it is really unsafe. When my hill height was 5m the total speed was 9.89. When the speed is over 8.4 then the ride was deemed unsafe for us to ride. It was really hard to find a fun drop height but also a safe drop height. The drop height i found that was safe and still very fun is 3.55m. The overall speed was 8.33 m/s. I fit the safe speed and the fun speed. The mass of the roller coaster car doesn't effect the speed of the roller coaster ride. I figured this out because no matter what the mass was even if it was 60 kgs the overall speed was still 8.33. It didn't matter because mass cancels out. The speed only changed when the initial drop height and the hill height changed. The mass was 40kgs, 52kgs, 46kgs and 60 kgs the speed was still 8.33 m/s.

So those are somethings you should consider when you pick out a roller coaster. When you have more energy you go faster. When you have a heavier cart you go faster. When you have a bunch of PE and KE then you get to have a really fun ride. When the hill height and the drop height are a certain height then you get a safe but still fun ride speed. Because my roller coaster fits all of the criteria, you should pick my rollercoaster to put into the park. 