Dear Gonzalez family,

I have a proposal for the design of your roller coaster. Using what I have learned about mass, height, and the laws of physics I know how to make the fastest, safest, and most fun roller coaster possible.

My proposal is to make a roller coaster with the highest initial drop height possible. Doing this will give the cart more total energy. I know having as much total energy as possible is best because of energy conversion. Total energy is the sum of PE and KE. At the top of the release all the energy is PE. Once the ride begins to fall that PE is converted to KE. At the end of the ride all the PE is converted to KE. More KE means more speed and time on the ride. (AKA maximum fun) I know this because of the first experiment I conducted on the relationship of energy and height. The first trial had a release height of 2.4 m. This height produced a total energy of 1220 J. The last and highest trial had a release height of 3.5 m. This height produced a total energy of 1708 J. With a difference of almost 600 joules it is easy to see that higher is better for maximum energy and fun.

Another important factor is the mass of the cart. Not to be confused with weight, mass is how much there is of an object. A cart's mass may seem to not be important, but it actually can have a great affect on the energy of the ride. My third experiment gave me trials to prove that a bigger cart is better. The cart with the least mass of 46 kg had 1570 J of total energy, while the cart with the most mass of 60 kg had 2054 J of total energy. Something special about mass is that it doesn't affect speed. This is important because it means you can have a cart with lots of mass which will equal more energy, without increasing the speed to dangerous levels. I know this because of my final experiment, where I dropped a cart with a mass of 50 kg and 40 kg, and they both produced a speed of 8.4 m/s. 

A new factor I learned about is the relationship between drop height and speed. I have determined that the best drop height for the roller coaster is 3.6 m. This is because this height produces the most amount of speed without causing safety concerns for our patrons. The highest possible speed the roller coaster can go safely is 8.4 m/s. 3.6 m produces a speed of 8.39 m/s. I know this because of my trials in a drop height and speed experiment. My first trial of 3.25 m produced 7.97 m/s of speed. My last trial of 3.61 m produced 8.4 m/s of speed. Which is the perfect balance of fun and safety

One last detail on the coaster are the hills. A roller coaster is much more fun with swerves and bumps. But I recommend the design is conscious about the affect hills have on the coaster. My second experiment provided trials on how high a hill can be an the cart still makes it over the top and to the end. I learned that a roller coaster's hills cannot be equal to or greater than the height of the initial drop. This is because of the law of conservation of energy. This law tells us that energy cannot be created or destroyed. This means that during the ride, the total energy available will stay the same. When the cart drops its PE is converted to KE, and as it climbs up the hill KE is converted to PE. Once all the KE is converted to PE the only way it can move is back down. If the hill requires more KE than the cart has to spend, it will not make it over the hill. I know this because of my second experiment, where the first 3 trials of 2, 2,5, and 3 m hills all allowed the cart to go over as soon as the release height equaled the hill, the cart did not pass over.

In conclusion, the secret to the best roller coaster is simple. Use a high release point for maximum energy, use a large mass cart to add more energy, and keep the hills low enough so the cart can pass through.
