Dear Gonzales Family
	After thorough research and many different tests, I have created a final roller coaster. This coaster will include an initial drop, 2 hills, and 8 inversions, and will reach a maximum speed of 8.4 Meters a second., but before I explain my design, I would like to explain some important factors that we had to take into consideration while designing this coaster.
	First of all, the drop. If we want to get as much safe speed as possible, we will need to have the drop be 3.61 meters tall. This will result in more KE and PE but hit exactly 8.4 m/s and no more than that. After research, I found that a larger drop will cause more PE and KE. This means that if the drop is taller than 3.61 meters, the car will pass 8.4 m/s. Since the PE at the top will be greater, that means the KE at the bottom will be greater too, since total energy stays the same throughout the whole coaster. 
	Another factor is the hill and loop heights. If a hill or loop is the same height, or higher than the initial drop, the car can not get over it. For example, in one of our experiments, in one trial the hill height was 5m, and the drop was also 5 meters, and the car did not conquer the hill in that trial. In a second trial, the hill height was 4.76 meters, and the initial drop was 5 meters. This time, the car got over that hill. The reason for this is that the KE needed to get over a hill of the same height or higher than the initial drop is greater than the PE at the top of the drop. Due to the law of conservation of energy, which states “Energy can not be created or destroyed.” This means that due to the PE being less than the KE, the car can not make it to the end of the track.
	A third factor is mass. A car with more mass will result in more PE, and since energy converts, it will also result in more KE. But, something I discovered, meant that the car’s mass didn’t actually matter for the coaster. Let me explain: In another test I did, one trial the car mass was 50kg, and the car reached exactly 8.4 m/s, and the speed throughout the ride was the same. In a second trial, the car mass was 60kg. But, the results were exactly the same as the trial before. This shows that the speed of the car, and the mass of the car don’t affect each other. So, this means that getting a lighter cart or heavier cart won’t matter in the end.
	This has been my rollercoaster design. I hope it makes sense and that all the proper requirements have been met in your family's eyes, and that you agree to build this coater.
