The Gonzales family should choose my roller coaster design because not only is it fun and fast; it's also super safe for everyone. My roller coaster consists of an initial drop of 3.55 m, hill height of 3.52 m, and the mass of the car will be 55 kg. I chose 3.55 m as the initial drop because if it were to be any higher, the speed of my car will go over 8.4 m/s which is way too fast and unsafe. But if I make it any smaller, then the speed of the car will decrease and won't be as fast or fun. Most roller coasters start with a chain lifting up the car but my roller coaster will start with a drop. 

In my trials, when I tried 5 m the total speed at the end was 9.77 m/s which is way too fast. But in another trial, I tried 4 m as the drop height and got 8.64 m/s which is better but still not safe. I then got to 3.55 m and finally found a safe speed of 8.33 m/s. I then tried to find a safe enough mass for the car. I first tried 40 kg and the speed at the end was 8.31 m/s which was good since it wasn't over 8.4 m/s. I then tried a different mass of 55 kg and as the end speed, I got the same thing. 8.31 m/s. On my last trial I tried the max amount which was 60 kg and still got the same thing. Meaning that the mass of the car does not affect the speed that the car goes. The height does. The higher the initial drop, the more speed there is and the more energy there will be. Potential and Kinetic energy. 

Potential energy (PE) is energy that is stored in an object in a specific position. Kinetic energy (KE) is energy that an object has because of its motion / movements and Total energy (TE) is when you combine / add up KE and PE together. PE and KE should always add up to be whatever the TE is in the end. PE depends on how tall your roller coaster is. As I said earlier, height is what makes more energy. The Law of Conservation is when energy cannot be created or destroyed. It can only be transferred / transformed into another object. This is where PE and KE come in. In the beginning of the ride / the start, PE would usually be a higher number while KE wouldn't have anything. But as the ride goes on, the energy from PE would transfer to KE and at the end of the ride, KE would have the higher number while PE would have nothing. 