Dear the Gonzales family,
     Hello! I am writing to you to discuss the best roller coaster design. Our roller coaster is the best option for your theme park. This is because it will go the whole length without stopping and keeping the riders safe. 
A good roller coaster should have a higher drop height than any of the hills. Our roller coaster will start with a drop from 3.6m then go into a loop with a height of 3m and then a hill with a height of 2.75 then more loops and hills follow, keeping the riders entertained but safe. 
      If the hills are higher the car will be unable to make it over. At the top of the hill the car has the max amount of potential energy (PE) and the greater the mass of the car the more total energy your ride has, the more hills you can put in. As you go up the hills the more PE you have and as you go down the hills that becomes KE. The reason you want more total energy is because none of that will be lost, the law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, it can only change. So no matter how great the PE or KE is you will always have the same amount of energy. The science behind having a higher drop height to help have more energy is because the higher the drop height the more TE. Proof of this can be found in an experiment done by someone at Deforest area middle school. They found that the drop height of 4.5m had 293 less joules of PE than the drop point of 5m. But it can't be too high a safe speed for a roller coaster is nothing over 8.4m/s and the highest drop you can have without going over is 3.6m because that is exactly 8.4 m/s while a height of 3.75 is 8.56m/s which is unsafe. The height of your hills can also affect the roller coaster. Another study done by someone at DAMS showed that the hill has to be less than the initial drop height. They also found that the higher the hill the more PE it has at the top. The  hill with a height of 4.5m had 589 more joules of PE than a hill height of 3.51m. The more mass your car has the more total energy, this was proven by yet another student at DAMS. They found that a car with a mass of 55 kg had 254 less joules of PE than a car with a mass of 60kg. But the mass of the car doesn't affect the speed of the coaster in any way; a car of 50 kg and 60 kg are both the same speed when put through the same roller coaster when working with a scenario without friction. 
     Overall in order to have a successful roller coaster you need to have a high but safe drop height, hills that are shorter than the initial drop height, and a car with a heavier mass. Thanks for considering us to build your roller coaster, we can help make it fun and safe to make the theme park the best it can be! 