Dear Gonzales family as I did more detailed research I ran into a problem, safety. I needed to find a different structure roller coaster to create a safe and fun ride for your passengers my proposal will show this is the safest and most fun roller coaster you could add to your park.
First, we have to talk about speed, speed is one of the most essential pieces it could severely hurt the riders which is why I ran some experiments. In my first test, my initial drop height was 5m which led to the total speed being 9.88m/s this is way too fast. Then I brought it down to 3.63m which led to a total speed of 8.42m/s and was still too fast. Finally, I tested the drop height of 3.61, and the total speed at the end of the ride was 8.39m/s which is perfect for riders to have lots of speed and lots of fun. These examples from my research prove that drop height is just as important as speed.
For my coaster, I had to find ideal heights for my coaster as we learned from my past proposal the hill height cant be higher than the initial drop nor can the loop be higher than the hill. We had to run experiments to see which heights were best for each section. I found that the ideal drop height is 3.60m because it gave the car enough momentum to get over the loop. Then I made my loop 3.24m high because it allowed the car to go around it whilst still having enough momentum to get over the hill. Lastly, the hill height was best at 2.50 because the car had enough energy to get over the hill to the end of the ride. These measurements still allowed me to have a safe speed but still have fun.
As we know energy can not be created or destroyed only transferred so if we change the height the amount of total energy will change along with potential energy and kinetic energy. So the higher the drop height the higher the total energy which then increases the speed. Mass is incorporated too although if we change the mass of the car you will begin to see nothing changes examples from my data show this. In my first trial, the mass of the coaster car id 40kg my last trial the car was out at 60kg but the total speed was always 8.38m/s. These examples prove the point that mass does not have an effect on speed by showing g the total speed never changes.
This essay hopefully proved that my coaster is the safest one and that it will be the best addition to your park. Thank You Sincerely_____________.



