The roller coaster my team made is going to be the best roller coaster you've seen because it goes 128 mph, and gets your heart pumping in the best way possible. 
With my team's roller coaster. The first thing that happens is the initial drop and it helps the car to have enough momentum to have a car make it around the whole loopy loop, and then you just finish it off with a small hill.
Kinetic energy(KE) is the speed and movement of the car. Potential energy(PE) is energy stored in the car due to its position, mass, and height. That will help the roller coaster go fast because the PE will be converted into KE, which gives the ride its speed and thrill. The height of the initial drop is 5m tall and the amount of kinetic energy at the top of the initial drop is 0J and the amount of potential energy at the top of the initial drop is 2443J. Then the potential energy at the bottom of the initial drop was 1J and the kinetic energy at the bottom of the initial drop is 2442J. 
As the car moves down the hill, The PE of 2443J is converted into KE. By the time the car reaches the bottom of the initial drop, the full 2443J of energy has completely been converted into visible, thrillable KE. The Law of Conservation of Energy allows the PE to be entirely converted into KE, giving the rider the best time of their lives. 
 The initial drop height of the roller coaster is 5m, and the height of the hill is 4.46m. Then the mass of the car is 56kg. The reason that I chose these numbers is because even though I kept changing the mass of the car the speed stayed the same throughout the whole roller coaster ride. So I tried to make the mass higher and made the mass lower but no matter what the seed stayed the same.
The height impacts the KE and PE and the speed but mass doesn't really change much at all because looking at my data when I put the mass of the car to 60kg the speed was 8.27m the whole ride. So then after seeing that happen. I put the mass down to 46kg, but the speed still ended up at 8.27. Then when I changed the height higher up and kept the mass at the same thing it went faster.
The Law of Conservation of Energy affects my roller coaster design. This means I will change the initial drop height to be just a little higher to make sure that there is momentum to make it through the whole loopy loop. Looking my data states that with a car mass of 56 and a speed of area will be 8.27 at the bottom and a mass of 40 will also be 8.27 at the bottom. So it is overall it does not affect the speed and mass  
 As the mass increases, the PE and KE also increase similarly. This means that the more people that ride it, the faster the ride will travel, causing the people to experience even more fun. The whole family should ride so it goes the fastest! 