Dear Gonzales family, 
     You should build our design because we tested initial drop, additional hills,mass of the roller coaster car, it works well and it will be fun. Here I will prove to you all of the things I just said with data from test runs, logic, and the relation ships between energy and the track. 

     First our design works well, our design was built with speed and success in mind. In our roller coaster design we start off with a high 5 meter drop that will give the roller coaster cart enough energy to follow through with the rest of the coaster. In one of our test drops when the cart fell from 5 meters it went through the entire coaster because when the PE at the top of the coaster is higher, the faster the roller coaster cart will go. So when that cart fell from 5 meters the PE at the top was 2443. When we dropped the roller costar cart from 2 meters it didn't go as fast or as far and make it to the end of the track because the PE at the top was 977. So you should use our design because we have a higher drop and the roller coaster cart makes it to the end of the track successfully. 
     
      Seconded I want to talk about how our roller coaster works well because of the hill. In a roller coaster we all know there are many ups and downs to make it more fun for the rider in our roller coaster we added a hill after the drop out hill is 2 meters tall. Our hill is 2 meters tall so that the roller coaster cart can get over it and it wont stop mid way. In our test drops when we had our hill at 2 meters the cart went over it without a problem because it had enough energy form our 5 meter drop to go over the 2 meter hill. But when we had out hill also at 5 meters the cart failed to go over because it didn't have enough energy form the 5 meter drop to go over it. When adding hills in roller coasters you need to make sure the initial drop is higher then the hill or the cart will not be able to go over it. You should use our design because we added fun and successful hills into our coaster. 

     Third I wanted to talk about the relationship between PE, KE and total energy. When dealing with energy you need to keep the Law conservation of energy in mind. The Law of conservation energy is energy cannot be created or destroyed it can only be transferred. So with PE , KE and total energy the PE at the top will usually be similar to the KE at the bottom, and the total energy all throughout. The total energy takes the highest energy and becomes it. Potential energy is at the top because it's saying how much energy it could have bu the Kinetic energy is what it really has so that's why it's at the bottom. Like when we tested the initial drop the PE at the top was 2443, The KE at the bottom was 2442 and the total energy was 2433. Showing the PE at the top will be similar to the KE at the bottom, and the total energy all throughout.

      Fourth, I would like to talk about the initial drop in relation to the speed of the roller coaster. To keep the roller coaster safe for humans the speed had to be below 8.4 to change the speed of the roller coaster you have to change the height of the initial drop. As you know the initial drop has to be higher then the hill or loop in the coaster so the car will go over it. We found out the perfect number to keep the roller coaster fun and to keep it safe was 3.57 because it didn't go over 8.5 and it stayed over 6.7.

      Lastly, I wanted to talk about mass and energy relating to our roller coaster. Mass affects the energy when you raise the mass of the roller coaster cart the higher it goes the higher the energy will go too. When we tested this and we raised the mass to 60 the PE and the  KE went up as well. Mass does not affect the speed of the roller coaster, no matter what you make the mass of the car, as long as the initial drop height is the same the speed with not change. I know this because when I tested 4 different masses of the car (40kg,60kg,50kg,55kg) they all came out with the same speed at the bottom of the hill 8.37m/s, speed at the top of the hill 0.87m/s, and speed at the end of the hill 8.38m/s. This shows mass does not affect the speed.

     That is the end of my letter to you I hope this helps you decide that our design is the best and it will work very well. 