To make a safe, fun, entertaining roller coaster experience, you need to hit a few important key areas. Height(including initial drop and hill), energy(PE and KE), speed and mass.

First lets start with height. Height can be a very easy concept but can lead to injures in not done carefully. Initial drop is what starts everything if you have a roller coaster going off of friction. Lets have it at 4.0 m high. The hill height can also be easy if done correctly, the hill must be shorter(in height) for a roller coaster to pass over it. That means if your initial drop in 4.0 m high, then your hill height can't be <4.0 m. Anything under that is perfectly okay IF it doesn't go over a safe speed limit, 8.40 m/s. It is simply how the Law of Conservation of Energy works.

Speed as an important factor because if your roller coaster is too fast than it can lead to fatal injuries, and nobody wants that. So height and speed need to work together to make the roller coaster car safely across to the finish line. Height is the only thing that can affect speed. If you have a high initial drop then your also going to have a high speed. The fastest a roller coaster can go safely in 8.40 m/s, if it's over than it's unsafe.

Now mass can be a confusing factor in making a roller coaster. Most people would think that if car A has a mass of 100 kg and car B had a mass of 50 kg, with both having the same initial drop height, car A would have a faster speed. But that's not true, both cars would have the same amount of speed. Mass cancels itself out of the equation when talking about speed( Mass x Gravity x Height = 1/2 Mass x Velocity^2 ). But energy is a completely different story.

Energy is measured in Joules(J). It is there before the roller coaster even starts, that is what is known as potential energy(PE). The amount of energy it could 'potentially' have. And there is another known of energy called kinetic energy(KE), that is found when the roller coaster is at the very bottom of the initial drop. Both the PE and KE alternate when the roller coaster is in motion but in the end will equal the same with what it started with. Also known as the total energy(TE)

Now back to mass and energy, say car A has a mass of 100 kg and car B has a mass of 50 kg, both once again having the same initial drop height. Even though mass doesn't affect speed, it does affect the energy, more mass = more energy / more mass = same speed.

Now that all of the important factors about a roller coaster have been said, you now know how to make a safe, fun, entertaining roller coaster. If you have all of these factors height(including initial drop and hill), energy(PE and KE), speed and mass. You can make a roller coaster!