Dear Gonzales family, 

I am proposing a safe, fun and exhilarating ride for your family. For this to happen we need a tall initial drop but not too high that it is unsafe for the riders. Secondly, any weight for the roller coaster car and  Lastly, we need a Hill height that is shorter than the initial drop height. 

Firstly, we need a tall drop but not too high. Not only that but energy cannot be either created or destroyed. My data that was observed during the SIM activity says that the initial drop needs to be greater than the hill height. We put the hill height into the SIM and it turned out that the same hill height and drop height does not allow the car to go over the hill. So because of this, we would need to have a roller coaster with a greater drop height than the hill. So in this case we'll put 3.5m for the start height but with a shorter hill height of 3m. When the cart is dropped from that height the speed is 8.27m/s . This is under 8.4 m/s which is safe for the riders. This will still be exiting and not too slow for the riders. 

My second reason is a car with any type of mass. In our Mass & Speed lesson we learn that no matter the car mass it doesn't change the total energy. In the data it shows that with a car mass of 60kg the total speed is 8.26m/s and the car mass of 40kg has a total speed of 8.26m/s. Which shows us that the car mass doesn't matter to the total speed. It may affect total energy but it will change the speed. So we can do any mass you would like. 

My last reason is the hill height. My data has gathered the idea that in order to have the roller coaster car make it to the end of the ride total the hill needs to be smaller. My data shows that at hill height of 5m has a total energy of 2449 but it doesn't have enough to get over the hill. While the hill height of 2.5m has a total energy of 2443 it will make it over the hill which will definitely be more enjoyable to the riders. For your roller coaster we will make the hill height at 3m. So to work with that we will make the hill shorter than the initial drop.  

In conclusion. To make the roller coaster that is most enjoyable to the riders, we will make a roller coaster that has a greater initial drop but still not too high. A shorter hill than the initial drop and a roller coaster car that has any amount of mass. All of this will create a higher TE that creates a successful roller coaster. I hope my idea fits what you guys as a family would like. Let me know if you would like to choose my idea as your final design.