Dear Gonzales family, you should pick my roller coaster design for your for your park and here is why. The ride will be fun and exiting but, also safe for everyone. I have learned with my experiments that I have been doing that you want the initial drop height to be higher so, it can produce more energy. I learned that you should have the initial drop height be higher than the hill you have on the roller coaster. And if you want more speed, you are going to have to make the initial drop higher or the hills you plan to add.

I found that the initial drop height should be high because there will be more TE that is being produced over the drop. When the car is released from the initial drop height there is more KE being produced over the ride. Data I found when I was experimenting was when the car was released at the height 5 meters, the car had 2442 Joules of KE. But, at the drop height of 3 meters, the car had 1465 Joules of KE at the bottom of the initial drop. This data shows that there was more KE at the end of the ride. I also found that the TE will always be the same since the law of conservation of energy says that energy cannot be created or destroyed, it can only be transferred. Like in my trials where the PE at the top of the drop was 1466 J and the KE was 0 J. When the roller coaster went through the ride the PE at the end of the ride was 1 J and the KE was 1465 J so, the TE at the bottom equals the TE at the top of the ride. Therefore, a taller initial drop is what you should use on your roller coaster.

I found the initial drop height should be higher than the hills because the car has to have enough energy to make it to the end. I found the height of the hill has to have less PE at the top of the hill than the PE at the initial drop. My data shows that all of the hill heights that were less than 4.5 meters worked when I used a 4.5 m initial drop. But the 5 meter hill height did not work because PE at the top of the hill was 2202 J. And the initial drop height's PE at the top was 2199 J from my initial drop data. I found that if you want a safe roller coaster you need to have at most a speed of 8.4 m/s so, you will need high hills to make the ride fun, yet make them short enough where it is safe for the riders. In my experiments where I tried to see what would be the best initial drop height for a hill of 3 meters, I found that 3.60 m was the best. The roller coaster went a speed of 8.39 m/s which is the fastest it could go with the ride still being safe. When I used the initial drop height of 3.61 m the car went 8.41 m/s and that is not safe enough for riders. In conclusion you will need an initial drop height where it is safe for riders to go on.

I found that the more weight there is the more TE there will be. I found that the more mass there was in the car, the more energy there was. In my trials I found that when the mass was 45 kg the TE was 1992 J. But, in my trials where the car was 60 kg the total energy was 2644 J. I also found that the mass of the car does not matter when you want more speed. In my trial where I used 40 kg for the mass of the roller coaster car the car went 8.39 m/s, which is safe. And when I used the weight of 60 kg the car went 8.39 m/s again. Therefore, the mass does not matter and speed only depends on the height that you use for your hills or initial drop, and if you need to change the speed you should only change it for more energy.

You should choose my safe, fun and, exciting roller coaster. The roller coaster should have a higher initial drop height, a hill that is lower than the initial drop, and a mass that is heavy. I hope you pick it because it will be the best design for the park and your customers. 

