Dear Gonzales Family, 
  If you want to have the best roller coaster possible you should have a pretty high initial drop height and also you can add some hills into it. If you are going to add hills onto it the roller coaster you need to make sure that the hill is smaller than the initial drop height or else your cart will not be able to make it over. For example when the initial drop height is 5 m and the hill height is 5 m the cart can not make it over. 
  
  The cart mass also comes into this, if you have a lighter car it will have less PE at the top and less KE at the bottom of the drop. If the cart weighs 40 kg it has 1959 PE at the top and 1955 KE at the bottom of the drop. Compared to a cart that has a heavier mass. Such as a cart with a mass of 60 kg, this cart has 2938 PE at the top of the drop and 2932 KE at the bottom.
  
  Initial drop height can effect what happens to the KE, PE, and total energy. An example of this is when we have a initial drop height of 2 m there is going to be more PE at the top and less KE. But once you get to the bottom of it there is more KE and no PE. This also goes for any height that you have. Whatever PE you have at the top of the initial drop is going to be the same as the total energy.When there was a initial drop height of 3.5 m there was 1710 PE and 0 KE, but once you got to the bottom there was 1 PE and 1709 KE and a total of 1710 energy. So when the total energy is 2443. This would mean that the PE would also be 2443 at the top of the initial drop and the KE would be 2443 at the bottom of the initial drop. Once you get closer towards the bottom the energy starts to transfer from one to another. When the energy transforms from PE to KE this is called the Law of Conservation of Energy. This states that energy can not be destroyed or created. So this is why it starts with s certain amount of energy which then transform to another. For example when you are at the top of an initial drop you have a certain amount of PE. And once you get towards the bottom that PE transforms into KE.

  Depending on the drop height will change the speed of the coaster. So if the initial drop height is larger there will be more speed. But you also need to make sure that the speed is safe for people to ride and its not going to fast. You also have to make sure that the drop height is still higher than the hill height. For example when the initial drop height was 5 m and the hill was 3.5 m. The speed at the end of the ride was 9.88 m/s. This made the ride way to fast and almost dangerous. Compared to a initial drop height of 3.54 m and hill height of 3.5 m the speed at the end was 8.33 making it much more safe to ride.

  No matter what the mass of the car is the speed will stay the same. But the hill height and drop height have to stay the same for the mass of the car not to matter. So with a initial drop height of 3.54 and hill height of 3.5 the speed at the end was 8.33 and the car mass being 40 kg. This was the exact same thing with a cat with a mass of 60 kg. The speed at the end was also 8.33.

  So when you take cart mass, initial drop height, and hill height into consideration, these things can determine whether the coaster will work  or not work. You need to make sure you have a initial drop height taller than the hill height if you want the cart to get over.  And depending on the height of the initial drop can determine the amount of PE, KE, and total energy from a roller coaster. If the initial drop height is too big the speed will be too fast and can be dangerous for people to ride. But if you change the car mass the speed won't change either as long as the hill height and drop height are the same for all of the car masses the speed will stay the same.