
Hour:3
In this essay, I will be providing you, the Gonzolas family with information on why you should add my roller coaster to your theme park.
First, we need to make sure we have a safe initial drop. The initial drop on my roller coaster is 5.00m this is because it had the highest PE and KE in joules while still being safe for the hill and loop. If the coaster car is at the top of the hill the PE will be 1955 J and the KE at the top of the hill will be 0 J. This is because all the KE has not been built up yet. Let's say the coaster car was in the middle of the initial drop the KE and PE would both be around 977.5 J because the PE is transferring over to the KE.
Then, we would have to calculate the relationship between PE, KE, and total energy we can figure this out by looking at this example from our data If the initial drop is 5.00m high the PE at the top of the hill would be 1995 J and the KE would be 0 J 1995 plus 0 equals 1995 which would be the total energy. So the equation would be PE plus KE equals total energy.
Now, we have to add a hill we need to make sure that the coaster car has enough speed to get over the hill. Our initial drop will be 5.00m so we cannot have anything equal to or over that or it will not go over. At the top of the hill the PE is 1995 J and the KE should be at 0 J. Theoretically this means as the coaster car goes down the hill the PE will transfer over to KE making it equal around the middle of the hill. At the end of the coaster, there will be no PE and all KE.
Furthermore, the law of conservation of energy states "Energy can not be created or destroyed." we can look at our data and find that in the middle of the initial drop of 5.00m that the PE is transferring to KE and still equaling the total energy of 1955 J. This statement proves that the law of conservation of energy is backed up by evidence from research.
After, we must concur that our hill and drop height rely on each other. If the initial drop height is 5.00 the hill height cannot be the same or love it or it will not be able to get over but where we still have enough energy to get over the loop after the hill. If the drop height is lower than the hill the coaster car will go backwards. If the hill is too low compared to our initial drop it could cause injuries to passengers aboard.
Finally, the mass has a big play in the speed and energy of the roller coaster for example. The greater the mass of the coaster car the greater the total energy the car has to get to the end of the track. Also The greater the mass of the coaster car the greater the total energy the car has to get to the end of the track.  Evidence from our data will further prove this point in my first trial my car mass was 40kg and the total energy was 1995 J but in my last trial with a coaster car of 60kg, the total energy is 2933. These pieces of evidence prove that mass and energy have a big relationship with PE and KE.
I hope this detailed info page about my coaster proved to you that my roller coaster will be the best and safest option for your guests.
Dear Gonzales family as I did more detailed research I ran into a problem, safety. I needed to find a different structure roller coaster to create a safe and fun ride for your passengers my proposal will show this is the safest and most fun roller coaster you could add to your park.
First, we have to talk about speed, speed is one of the most essential pieces it could severely hurt the riders which is why I ran some experiments. In my first test, my initial drop height was 5m which led to the total speed being 9.88m/s this is way too fast. Then I brought it down to 3.63m which led to a total speed of 8.42m/s and was still too fast. Finally, I tested the drop height of 3.61, and the total speed at the end of the ride was 8.39m/s which is perfect for riders to have lots of speed and lots of fun. These examples from my research prove that drop height is just as important as speed.
For my coaster, I had to find ideal heights for my coaster as we learned from my past proposal the hill height cant be higher than the initial drop nor can the loop be higher than the hill. We had to run experiments to see which heights were best for each section. I found that the ideal drop height is 3.60m because it gave the car enough momentum to get over the loop. Then I made my loop 3.24m high because it allowed the car to go around it whilst still having enough momentum to get over the hill. Lastly, the hill height was best at 2.50 because the car had enough energy to get over the hill to the end of the ride. These measurements still allowed me to have a safe speed but still have fun.
As we know energy can not be created or destroyed only transferred so if we change the height the amount of total energy will change along with potential energy and kinetic energy. So the higher the drop height the higher the total energy which then increases the speed. Mass is incorporated too although if we change the mass of the car you will begin to see nothing changes examples from my data show this. In my first trial, the mass of the coaster car id 40kg my last trial the car was out at 60kg but the total speed was always 8.38m/s. These examples prove the point that mass does not have an effect on speed by showing g the total speed never changes.
This essay hopefully proved that my coaster is the safest one and that it will be the best addition to your park. Thank You Sincerely_____________.




