      My team's roller coaster is the best design with many exciting parts and will make it to the end of the ride without stopping. My roller coasters have the best height, mass, and energy for the most exciting and safest ride. The Gonzales family should love my ride because it contains a lot of thrill, high drops, very powerful, and very safe. 
  According to data from my simulations my initial drop height is 3.5 m. My roller coaster is way more exciting than others because it creates lots more speed from how high the initial drop is and will still stay very safe. Since my roller coaster will have lots of speed to it, it will have enough kinetic energy to ride up the next hill. As a result of having lot's of kinetic and potential energy this will make my roller coaster ride more thrilling and excitement to my ride. My roller coaster cart changes quickly along the tracks. When it's cart is at the bottom of the hill, it's moves the fastest. Since all of the potential energy has been converted to kinetic energy, which means tons of speed and tons of fun. The total energy remains constant on my roller coaster. On my roller coaster energy changes from potential to kinetic energy and back again many times.  The law of conservation of energy states that energy can change forms, but energy cannot be created or destroyed. On my roller coaster energy changes from potential to kinetic energy and back again.
 My data states that the best height for a hill is 3 m. It's the best height for my hill because it will have enough kinetic energy to ride over the hill since the hill height isn't taller or the same height as my initial drop. 
   According to my data from my simulations my height (3.5m)affects the speed by the higher the drop height the faster the roller coaster car goes.  My data shows that when I got an initial drop height of 5 the speed of the car was 9.88. Which is the fastest car/height I recorded. But that is way too fast and the safety restrictions are only allowing the speed to be 8.4 so the best drop height would be 3.5m. 3.5 is the best drop height for the safest and thrilling ride. The larger the mass the larger the momentum. You want a lot of momentum since that creates more kinetic energy and it will be harder to slow down so my roller coaster won't stop. So I believe that 56 kg is the best car mass for my roller coaster which makes my roller coaster safe and fun. According to my data it proves that mass doesn't affect speed so it doesn't matter what your mass is (calculating for speed). My data states that with a car mass of 56 the speed of the car will be 8.27 at the bottom and mass of 40 will also have a speed of 8.27 at the bottom. So overall only the drop height affects the speed and mass doesn't. 
    In conclusion the Gonzales Family should follow my recommendations about the best roller coaster design. My best roller coaster design should conclude an initial drop height of 3.5 m, hill height 3 m, and mass of 56 kg. This will cause much excitement/thrill and very safety for many people and it will make it to the end of the ride without stopping.  
