        For you, the Gonzalez family, we have created a roller coaster that is both exciting and safe! Some of your requests were not possible to implement (such as hills higher than the drop) for reasons we will explain in further paragraphs, but aside from that we have done our utmost best to stick to what you wanted! In this proposal I will explain the science behind how our coaster works, and why this is the absolute best design you could ask for! 
        The first design implementation we decided on was the initial drop height, which we decided should be 3.5 meters tall. We came to this decision through numerous trials, which all pointed to this being the quickest safe option. Through our trials we first learned about how height affects potential energy. When we put the height of the drop at 5 meters we had 2443 joules of potential energy, but when we put it at 2 meters we had 977 joules, these proved that the higher the drop, the more potential energy you can have. Reading this you may wonder "why does that matter?" This matters because the total energy the roller coaster has in it is decided through the equation potential energy + kinetic energy = total energy. And, during the roller coaster because the total amount of energy never changes, all this potential energy will convert into kinetic energy (The energy that measures movement) which allows the roller coaster to go very fast. This process is called the Law of Conservation. So, learning all this information, you may once again have a question that may go along the lines of "so why don't we just make it 5 meters tall?" and my response to that is simply: because that would kill people. In a roller coaster, you must consider speed, which is affected by the height of the roller coaster. Basically: the higher the drop, the more abundant the speed. Although it would be awesome to have a super fast roller coaster, one cannot get over 8.4 m/s or it could cause harm and injury to the riders, and if we put it at 5 meters it would be way too fast. So we tested again and again to find a solution to this problem, and we learned that when a car was set at the drop height of 3.5, it gained 8.21 m/s which was still very quick but much safer for riders than when we put it at 5 meters, which gained 9.87 m/s in speed. Overall, 3.5 would be the quickest safe height to set your drop at. 
        The second design implementation we decided on was to add 3 hills, the first with a height of 3.4, the second with a height of 3.2, and a third with a height of 3. The reason these hills are all lower than the initial drop height, and the reason we can't follow through on your "higher hills" request, is because that is impossible through physics. This is because to get over a hill of equal or taller height, the cart would need more potential energy than the drop gave it. This is physically impossible due to energy not being able to be created or destroyed, and therefore the hills have to be shorter. We learned this information through trials. In one trial we found that if a hill was 5 meters (the same height as the drop) it would reach the same amount of kinetic energy as the drop and would not go over. In a different trial we discovered that if a hill was slightly smaller than the 5 meter drop, so about 4.75 meters, it would get a little less potential energy that the initial drop, and it would be able to go over. So we figure that 3.4 is almost as high as the drop and is still very fast, making it the best, and having 3 hills makes the roller coaster longer and lets the riders get more enjoyment out of it. Also, with smaller drops in the start of the hill, there will be less and less KE converting each time as it moves down the hill. This will keep it fast, but slow enough to safely stop.
        The third and last implementation we had to decide on was the mass of the car. After a lot of consideration, we have decided that a car of 60 kilograms would best suit your coaster. So, when choosing, we have decided on this weight due to the amount of potential energy a car with a greater mass has, compared to a smaller one. Cars with greater mass have been proven through experiments to carry significantly more potential energy, showing that mass affects the total energy in an object. Our evidence when we tested this showed that a car of 60 kilograms when dropped from 5 meters, we got 2937 joules of potential energy. When we tested how much potential energy we got from a car of 40 kilograms when dropped from 5 meters, we got 1956 joules. When we compare these data points we can visibly see that the car with more mass gains much more potential energy, which once again proves our theory. As the car moves down this significant amount of energy will convert into as much kinetic energy as possible that you could safely have. However, despite this, the mass of the car will not affect the speed of your roller coaster. When we did experiments to test how mass affects speed, we learned that when you put a car with the mass of 60 kg, down a track, it went 8.27 m/s, and when you put a car with a mass of 40 kg down that same track, it had a speed of 8.27 m/s, which is the same as the heavier car. This data proved that no matter the mass, if the track does not change at all, it will remain the same, so we stuck with a car with a mass of 60 kg. 
        Our decision was carefully made so a drop height of 3.5 meters, 3 hills that get smaller, and a car with a mass of 60 kilograms, is the best design choice. All of these design choices combined will, and I assure you with my full confidence, make one of the most exciting and safe coasters in your park! 