Dear Gonzales family in my final letter of recommendation I will be going over what I have learned. I have learned how changing the initial drop height affects energy, the best way to have hills, and how the initial drop height affects speed. I have also learned how mass affects energy in the roller coaster cart, and how changing the mass of the cart affects its speed. Finally, I learned the relationship between PE, KE, and TE and how the law of conservation affects it all.

To have more energy the height of the initial drop must be high. I know this because in all of the tests I have made the higher the drop is the more total energy is involved with the simulation. I know this because to have more total energy you have to have the chance for kinetic energy. One good way to have lots of potential energy is to start high up in the air. This causes the cart to have lots of potential energy because as the cart goes down the drop the kinetic energy will build up. I know this is the case because, in my tests for my initial drops, I made the release height 4.07 m and the potential energy at the top of the drop 1987 J, and in a different test I made the height 3.6 m and the potential energy was 1759 J. The only problem is that one drop isn't going to make a fun roller coaster you still need to add some hills to it. I did just that. I kept the highest height I experimented with and added hills onto it four different times. My tests concluded that the hill has to be shorter than the initial drop. This is because when you have a set amount of energy that cannot be created or destroyed stated by the rule of conservation, you have to stay within the boundaries of the amount of energy you have on the coaster. I also found out that the drop height can affect the speed. and that the m/s can't go over 8.4 otherwise riders could get hurt. In my tests, I learned that when you have a higher drop height it creates more speed along with more energy. I know this because on my first test, I made the initial drop height of 4.07m and the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.69 which is too fast so then I made it 3.38 m, and at the bottom of the drop the speed was 8.11. This made me conclude that the height of the initial drop does affect the speed. I also ran tests on how the mass of the roller coaster cart could possibly affect the energy and speed involved with the ride. In my tests, I concluded that mass can affect the energy but can not affect the speed at which the cart is moving.  I know this because in my tests I changed the mass of the car by five kg intervals and came across this. When the car is 50 kg the speed of it at the bottom of the hill was 8.10 m/s, but when the cart was 60 kg the speed was also 8.10 m/s, and so on with the rest of my tests. This is because in the equation to find speed mass will even out on both sides when you divide it. I also found out that the mass can affect the energy the cart has. I know this because I ran two tests and changed the mass of the cart by 5 kg and came across this. when the cart is 50 kg the energy it holds is 1639 j but when the cart is 55 kg it holds 1789 j. I also learned that PE+KE=TE. This is because the law of conservation energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed only converted. This affects our equation because if there is the potential of KE there will be PE.



