For the Gonzales family to have a safe and fun roller coaster that won't go over the 8.4 speed limit. They should make the initial drop height of their roller coaster 3.50 for their starting hill. The initial drop height will affect the whole entire ride because it affects the speed throughout the ride because it is the highest point/peek in the entire ride. 
For Gonzales's additional hills they should make their second hill height 3.00. So that the cart will be able to get over this hill from the starting drop height from the first hill that was slightly higher. The mass of the car will not affect the speed at all shown in these trials no matter what the speed stays the same. For the mass of the car I experimented with 48 kg, 54 kg, 60 kg, and finally 40 kg. For every single trial I got the same speed at the bottom of the drop and speed at the top of the hill and speed at the end of the hill. The data was, 7.33 for speed at the bottom of the hill and for the speed at the top of the hill it was 2.16 and the speed at the end was also 7.33. So when the Gonzales are trying to pick a car mass it will not matter what weight they end up choosing. For the Gonzales I would choose a mass of 50. 
For Gonzales's last hill they should choose a height of 2.75 so that the cart still has one more exciting ending before the car comes to a complete stop. This height will make it so that the cart can go over all of the hills without starting to go backwards. With a starting hill of 3.50 then and second hill of 3.00 and a final hill of 2.75. This shows that all hills need to be lower than the hill behind them so that the car can go over the hill safely. Towards the end you want the hill to be lower so that the car can stop on its own and not have to be manually stopped. The law of conversations in need in all of this because energy cannot be created nor destroyed and you will need this to have and sort of force or gravity for the cart to be able to go over the hills. When going over the hills you need to have a starting PE and no KE and then at the end you should have no PE and only KE. You need both for the ride to be completely functional. 
The Gonzales should consider the data that I have found when creating their next roller coaster so that it can be enjoyable for all. As well as being safe for all so they wont go over the speed limit and cause possible injuries. The data I have found is great for their next roller coaster because it doesn't go over any of the limiting factors and it will be safe and fun with all of the hills and loops.