Dear Gonzales Family

I feel like we need to have a fun ride that people would wanna do, so I feel we need to make really high drops and make the roller coaster really fast

My best designs initial drop was 2840. I feel like it would be the best because, It has the tallest hill that I can make, but the drop height is enough for the car to still get over the hill. Usually the taller and faster rides are the ones people enjoy the most at amusement parks. 

The drop height will effect how much energy you have at the end of the ride if your drop height is smaller then the hill, the car will not make it over or the hill. So the drop height always has to be higher then any hills. The lower the drop height the lower the potential energy will be. Like for me I set the initial drop at 5, If I set the hill height at 5 to the roller coaster car would not have enough momentum to get over the hill so the drop always has to be higher then the hill height. 

I noticed in my data the potential energy was always the same as the total energy no matter what. In my data I saw the higher you put the car mass the higher the total energy got. Another thing I saw in my data is that the hill and the drop height can not be the same otherwise the car would not make it over the hill. 



The kinetic energy always started at 0 on the initial drop. If the KE never started at zero the ride would not be able too work. I noticed at the top of the initial drop, PE and the KE stayed the same as the bottom of the initial drop. The total energy was either always the same or had a 1 point difference as the Kinetic Energy. The KE always had higher energy then the PE.


Every time the mass of the cars energy was higher the total energy was higher and when the car had a lower mass of energy the total energy dropped. If we were making a roller coaster in real life we would have too make sure there is enough friction on the track so the car would be able to stay on. The mass of the car can not be to big because if its to big then it won't be able to fit on the track. 


I noticed when I was doing the drop height and speed trials, the higher the initial drop was, the faster the speed was. In my data the speed was always either the exact same or one point off at the bottom of the drop, and the end of the ride. 


When I was doing the Mass & Speed of the car, my data would never change. If you kept the drop height and the hill the same And changed the mass of the car, the mass of the car would not effect the speed at all. When I was doing these trials, I put my drop height at 5 and put my hill height at 4.50, but when I changed the mass of the car, it wont affect anything that has to do with the speed of the car. The height of the hill or drop height on the roller coaster, can make the car go slower or faster depending on how high the hill or drop height is. 


