The roller coaster should have an initial drop of 3.5 with a hill of 2.5, the car should also be 60 kg. Because of higher energy and speed.

The roller coaster should have an initial drop of 3.5 because it causes the PE to be greater as well as higher speed. In my data it showed that at 3.5 m the speed was high enough to be fun but low enough to be safe at 8.27 total speed.Compared to 5 m with a total speed of 9.88 which is far too dangerous for a person to ride on. My reason for why there should be this high of an initial drop is because it increases the amount of potential energy on the ride. When you have a greater amount of potential energy, you will in turn have a greater amount of kinetic energy.Your kinetic and potential energy make up the total energy is the overall amount of energy in the coaster, the greater your total energy, the more exciting and larger you can make your coaster. Your coaster needs total energy/ energy to make it move.  Because of the law of conservation of energy, energy cannot be created or destroyed. This means that increasing the potential energy will make the roller coaster have more kinetic energy as it moves. 

My hill should be at 2.5 m as my hill needs to be lower than my initial drop otherwise the car will not make it to the end of the ride. My reason for why the hill should be shorter than the initial drop is because the car will not make it to the end of the ride. In "Adding Hills Data" my data showed, when my hill was the same height as my initial drop (5m) it did not make it to the end. But when my hill was at 4m with my initial drop being 5m the cart made it to the end. 

And lastly my car should be 60 kg as it increases energy but does not affect speed. In my mass and speed data it showed that throughout my data, no matter how heavy I made the car, the speed stayed the same with the speed at the end of the ride being 8.26.My reason for a heavy car is that it increases potential energy. Due to it's higher mass the potential energy rises, this also causes kinetic energy to be greater as when the car moves it's potential energy converts to be kinetic energy as it goes downhill. In "Mass and Energy Data" it shows that when my car's mass was at the highest (60kg) it had 2937J of energy causing it to not stop until the end. But when my car was at it's lowest mass (40kg) it had only 1958J of total energy.

All in all I think the roller coaster should have an initial drop of 3.5 with a hill of 2.5, the car should also be 60 kg. Because my design is safe and still reaches an exciting 8.3 m/s in speed.

