   After more thorough investigating, Gonzales family, I have determined more information to help you create the new hit attraction. I come to a realization that a roller coaster cannot have an initial drop of 5.00m, this would cause your customers to die due to too much speed. I also have learned something else about changing the mass of the car that can help you with your roller coaster Gonzales. So, let me walk you through my new plan, on your next big hit. 
   This rollercoaster cannot have a initial drop height that goes past 5.00m, because it has a speed of 9.88m/s at the bottom of the drop. This surpasses the limit for speed within a roller coaster, which is 8.4m/s. If it does, people will die on it. So, I propose that the initial drop should be at 3.75m so that way, the speed of the coaster car doesn't surpass 8.4m/s, but also meets the expectation of going at least 6.27m/s. An example of this is form my Drop Height & Speed data, Trial 2 and Trial 4. In Trial 2, the initial drop height was 3.50m. Trial 4's was 5.00m. At the bottom of the drop fro Trial 2, the speed was 8.27 m/s at the bottom of the drop, which is just below the max speed. Trial 4's was at 9.88m/s, which well surpasses the max speed of 8.4m/s. This shows that my roller coaster cannot surpass a height of 5.00m because it surpasses the max speed.
   Changing the initial drop height may have an effect on the roller coasters energy. This would mean there would be less energy throughout the entire ride. But,  the Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created nor destroyed, so that means that PE + KE = TE, even if the initial drop height changes. This also means that PE will be greater then KE at the top of the drop, and will convert the KE as it goes down the drop. An example of this is from my Initial Drop data, Trials 1 and 3. Trial 1 had a initial drop height of 5.00m, while Trial 2 had an initial drop height of 4.50. Trial 1 had 2443J of TE and Trial 2 had 2199J of TE. THis shows that the height of the roller coaster will effect the amount of TE the rollercoaster has.
   This rollercoaster will still have a hill, but since I am changing the height of the initial drop, we will have to change the height of the hill to a number less then that. The reason the hill must have a height less then the initial drop is because if it is equal to or greater then, the roller coaster car will not make it over the hill. So this means that the hill height will be less then 3.75m.
   The mass of the roller coaster car has an effect on the energy, but not so much on the speed of the roller coaster. The mass effects the energy because it can decrease or increase the amount of TE. An example of this is from my Mass & Energy data, Trials 1 and 2. Trial 1 had a mass of 40kg, while Trial 2 had a mass of 50kg. This caused Trial 1 to have 998J of TE, and Trial 2 to have 1223J of TE. This shows that a car with a greater mass will have more TE. The mass of the car doesn't really effect the speed of the coaster. An example of this is from my Mass & Speed data, Trials 1 and 2. Trial 1 had a mass of 40kg, while Trial 2 had a mass of 46kg. They both had about the same speed of 7.64m/s. This shows that the mass of a car doesn't really effect the speed of the rollercoaster.
   I hope you know will see that this is a truely functioning roller coaster and will help boost your ratings. Thank you.