Dear Gonzales family, 
                     I am writing to you so you can pick my design for your roller coaster. I will talk about everything I learned about in the experiment I tested and my data. I think I am the best suited and now let me tell you why. 
        The first test I was experimented was the initial drop. The best drop height from  my data was 5.00 meters. This drop was the highest drop and it had the most PE energy at the top of the drop and the most KE energy at the bottom of the drop.For example the top of my hill the PE was 2443 and the bottom of the drop the KE was 2442 compared to drop with 4.0 meters which the PE at the top was 1955 and the KE at the bottom was 1954.. I also learned that the relationship between PE and KE and the energy transformation  that they always cancel each other out. Like when the cart is at the top of the hill the PE is higher then KE and than when the cart is moving the PE goes down and the KE goes up.From the experiments I learned that KE and PE always add up to the total energy. NO matter where the cart is moving or not the TE always equals  KE+PE=TE. For example if the PE was 1955 and the KE is 0 the TE would be 1955 or even if the PE was 1855 the KE would be 100 and the TE would still be 1955. In the experiment Add a hill I learned that the drop height of the hill NEEDS to be smaller than the height of the drop. That is because if the hill was higher than the drop or even the same height as the drop the cart will not make it over according to the data I collected. No matter how big the drop height is unless it is higher than the hill.  In my experiments I learned about mass. From my data learned that mass does NOT effect the energy. If I had a cart mass of 80 and a cart mass of 5 the cart will still both have the same PE and the same KE according to my data. In my last experiments I learned about mass and speed and the drop height and how the mass and drop height effect speed. I learned that mass does not effect the speed. The only thing that effects speed is the drop height. From my data I had a mass of 60 and a mass of 40 and both speed was 8.27. But compared to my drop heights when I was changing the drop height the speed was also changing.  The best drop height for the roller coaster is 3.50 because the top speed for the roller coaster is 8.4 and my speed is 8.3 so it is safe but also fun. 
Dear Gonzales family I hope you choose my ride and I hope you have learned everything that I found out about these experiments. 