I designed a roller coaster for your theme park that is physically viable, really fun, and safe. My roller coaster has the perfect drop height for speed, fun and safety. It's also designed in a way that the car will never roll backwards along the track so that the car will make it to the end without fail. Let's analyze the physics behind why my roller coaster design will be the best for your park. 

Roller coaster design statistics:
Drop height: 3.5 meters
Hill height: 2 meters
Loop height: 3.45 meters
Bank height: 2.5 meters
Maximum speed: 8.3 meters per second
Mass: 58 kilograms

The height of the initial drop on a roller coaster is a key factor that decides the amount of energy that a roller coaster will have throughout the ride. At the top of an initial drop, the car will have all of the energy it will ever have, which starts in the form of potential energy. Potential energy is the stored energy that matter can use to make things happen—when the time comes. As the car rolls down the track from the initial drop, it begins converting the potential energy it had at the top of the drop into kinetic energy. Kinetic energy is the energy that is formed when things actually do happen. Once the car is at the bottom of the initial drop, all of the potential energy that could be converted is now kinetic energy. This means the car will be moving as fast as it ever has. We can see how the initial drop height has an effect on energy using data from Initial Drop. Throughout all runs, I had no hills and used a car that had a mass of 58 kilograms. At the top of an initial drop of 2 meters, the car had 1,134 joules of potential energy and 0 joules of kinetic. At the bottom of the drop, the car had 0 joules of potential energy and 1,134 joules of kinetic. With an initial drop height of 5 meters, the car had 2,834 joules of potential energy and 0 joules of kinetic, while at the bottom, the car had 0 joules potential and 2,834 kinetic. The roller coaster also moves faster as a result of a higher drop height, as shown in data from Drop Height & Speed. Throughout all runs the mass of the coaster car was 58 kilograms and the hill height was 2.5 meters. With a drop height of 3.5 meters, the car's maximum speed was 8.28 meters per second. With a drop of 4 meters, the car topped out at 8.85 meters per second, 0.57 meters per second higher than with a drop of 3.5 meters. My roller coaster design has a high drop height that will maximize the amount of kinetic energy, therefore speed and fun, during the ride. All the while, it's still within safe limits, explained in the second to last paragraph.

The total energy within a ride is the same as the amount of potential energy at the start of the ride. At the bottom of the drop, assuming that's the lowest point of the roller coaster, all of that energy will have been converted into kinetic energy, also the same as the total energy. We can see this in the data we used previously from Initial Drop. At the top of a drop of 5 meters, the car had 2,834 and 0 joules of potential and kinetic energy respectively, while at the bottom, the car had 0 and 2,834 joules of potential and kinetic respectively. While the car is going down the drop, the potential energy is converted into kinetic energy more and more until the bottom of the drop. At any given point throughout the ride, kinetic energy plus potential energy will always equal total energy. We can see this in data from Add a Hill. Throughout all runs, the car had a mass of 58 kilograms and was dropped from 4.5 meters. This run had a total energy of 2,254 joules. At the top of a hill with a height of 3 meters, the car had 1,708 joules of potential energy and 847 joules of kinetic energy. Add those together, and you get the total energy—2,254 joules. So long as we're working with a closed system, the total energy within that system will remain the same no matter what and energy can only be converted from one form to another. This is the Law of Conservation of Energy, and it is fundamental to knowing how roller coasters, or physics in general, work. The car of my roller coaster design should have plenty of energy. The amount of energy the car has decides whether or not it will make it to the end of the ride. This is because the initial drop height is higher than the highest point along the track. That leads into my next point…

The height of the initial drop versus the height of the highest hill on a track has the most impact on whether or not the coaster car will be able to make it to the end. If the hill height is lower than the drop height, the coaster car will make it to the end. This is because the car had enough kinetic energy left over to get over the peak after converting kinetic energy into potential energy going up the hill. If the hill height is equal to or higher than the drop height, the car won't be able to make it to the end of the ride. This is because the car will have exhausted all of its kinetic energy before making it to the peak of the hill. We can see this using more data from Add a Hill. With a drop height of 4.5 meters and a hill height of 4 meters, the coaster car still had 276 joules of energy at the top of the hill that it could use to make it the rest of the way through the track. With the same drop height but with a hill that's 5 meters tall, the coaster car had 0 joules of kinetic energy before it even made it to the top. So, it started rolling backwards and the car never made it to the end. My roller coaster design's drop height is higher than the highest point along the track after the drop. Therefore, the car will be able to make it to the end of the track. My roller coaster design's drop height is higher than the highest point along the ride, as stated previously. Hence, the car will make it to the end of the track without fail.

The mass of the car of a roller coaster has an impact on the energy that the car has, however, it doesn't affect the speed of the roller coaster. This is because the car has more matter that allows it to store more energy, but that extra energy within that matter doesn't translate into the car moving faster. Therefore, the coaster car will move at the same speed regardless of mass. We can see how the coaster car has more energy using data from Mass & Energy. Each run of this simulation had a drop height of 5 meters and a hill height of 4 meters. With a car mass of 40 kilograms, the car had 1,959 joules of total energy throughout the ride. With car mass set to 60 kilograms, the car had 2,939 joules of total energy. That's 980 more joules of total energy than the run with 40 kilograms. We can see how speed isn't affected by mass using data from Mass & Speed. On all of these runs, the initial drop height was 3.5 meters and the hill height was 2.5 meters. When the mass of the car was 40 kilograms, the car moved at 8.28 meters per second at the bottom of the drop and at 4.41 meters per second at the top of the hill. When the car mass was 60 kilograms, the car moved at those same speeds for both points. Clearly, we can see that mass doesn't affect the speed of a roller coaster since it is cancelled out. The mass of the car on my roller coaster design can simply be decided while it's being built, since in the end, it doesn't have much of an impact. 

The top speed of a roller coaster should be between 6.7 and 8.4 meters per second. Too low, and it's not fun enough. Too high, and it becomes unsafe. My roller coaster design's maximum speed as shown by the simulation is 8.3 meters per second, which gives a 0.1 meter per second margin from the limit, so the ride should be extra fun and still within safe limits. 

There we go! I really hope you will consider my roller coaster design. We've seen from all of the data that my roller coaster won't have any flaws in functionality or safety. Plus, we've seen how the roller coaster can be fun for visitors to your park. I hope that all of your visitors have a blast at your park with my roller coaster design!