Dear Gonzales family
  So with this roller coaster you are trying to build.For us to build this roller coaster we need some safety requirements.Some of these will be or initial drop height or hill height even the weight of our car these will make the energy change and be bigger and smaller. 

First we will talk about or roller coasters initial drop and hill height.For our heights we will have to make our initial drop height taller than our hill height. The reason for this is because with the first drop we need to create a amount of energy to get over the hill so if our hill is the same height or taller than the initial drop or car will not get over. Also when the car goes down the initial drop the energy starts out as potential at the top of the hill but when it starts going down it transfers to kinetic energy.Here is some evidence we did some tests we keep or initial drop height at 5.00 meters.So we put or hill height at 4.01 meters and it created 2448 Joules of energy and made it over the hill.But when we put the hill height at 5.00 meters it created more energy that was 2449 joules of energy and it didn't make it over the hill. Also the way we get or total energy is by the potinel energy and the kinetic energy combined to equal the total energy. So this shows that our hill height needs to be smaller than the initial drop height.

We do need some things that might help our roller coaster to be fun. We might want our initial drop height to be pretty tall. It would create lots of Potential energy at the top of the drop and it will turn into ken-tic energy at the bottom. While this energy transfers between kinetic and potinel because we cant destroy or create energy can only transfer it that is what the law of conversation of energy says. This will create more energy for this coaster to be more fun and have  more inversions. Also if our car weighs more it will create more energy and will help that too we did some experiences to show that the car will create more energy if it weighs more. When the car weighed 40kg it created 1956 joules of energy while the car that weighed 60kg created 2934 joules of energy.

But also to make it a safe ride but a fun ride we need some limits. One of them is the speed the speed has to be at least 6.7 m/s but the speed cant be more than 8.4 m/s. The reason for this is that the speed cant be more because it will start causing bruising and pain to the riders and that inst fun anymore and the ride should be more than 6.7 m/s because it wouldn't be fun if it was less. So this means that we have to stop or height of our roller coaster because the height of Ur drop effects the speed of the coaster. Here is some data to prove it when i tested and put the coasters drop at 2.91 m it was at a speed of 7.41 m/s it was perfect because it isn't to slow or too fast. But for the speed the mass of our car doesn't matter that much. We tested this and the speed didn't go up very much here is the data. When the car was 40kg it was at a top speed of 7.54 and when the car was 60kg it was at a top speed of 7.54 m/s so the mass of the car doesnt matter. 

In conclusion Gonzalez family we need some stuff to make out coaster the best and safest as it can be 
