Dear Gonzales family, 
I believe my roller coaster will be the most exciting. Why I believe this is the initial drop is higher than the hill, creating momentum to get over the hill, safely to the end of the ride. 

The law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, but it can be changed. Using this information I changed up my roller coaster to make it so the total energy is to its full potential, making it a thrilling ride. The height of my initial drop is 3.30 m. By the height being this high up and the hill being less, a height of 3.02 m the roller coaster will gain more potential energy making it to the end and creating a thrilling, exciting ride. But it will also make it so the speed will be 8.0 m/s. This is a very important factor, because the speed cannot get over 8.4 m/s but also cannot be under 6.7  m/s or the ride will be either boring or harm you.So by having our initial drop and hill height the height we made it, our speed will be perfect for a fun ride. By having our heights this we know that,the higher the initial drop the more total energy there will be making the ride faster. How I know this is in my initial drop data from when the initial drop was 5.00 m the potential energy was 2447, making the total energy 2447 because the potential energy at the top of the drop is always the same as the total energy. So by seeing this we need to be careful and not get carried away with the height of the drops so we can maintain a good speed. 

If your hill height is more or the same height as your initial drop, it will not make it to the end of the ride. This is very important because you need to make it to the end of the ride and safely. My data from the adding hills lab shows that when I made the hill height and initial drop height both 5.00 m not only did the roller coaster not make it to the end but its kinetic energy at the top of the hill was significantly lower than all of the other recorded data that made it to the end. So it is highly important to make the initial drop higher then your hill, which my roller coaster has, already making it a ride-able and enjoyable roller coaster. 

Now for cart weight, I decided to make my cart weigh 60 kg. I found out in the mass & speed lab that the mass of the cart really doesn't affect the PE or KE, or the total speed. So I just decided to pick the mass of the cart to be 60 kg because it is a reasonable mass and doesn't alter anything else important. 

These are all reasons why I believe my roller coaster design would make for a very fun and enjoyable ride. As you can see I have learned a lot about what needs to be done to have a great roller coaster, and will continue to learn more throughout the lab. 