The Gonzales family should make sure to have the initial drop of this fun and safe roller coaster higher than the hills and loops. This is because if the initial drop is higher than the hills and loops, there will be more total energy to go over the hills and loops. But if there isn't enough total energy, the cart will not make it over the hills. They also need to make the cart weigh 60 kg so then there will be more TE.

  The Gonzales family needs to make the initial drop higher than the hills and loops so then there is enough total energy to go over the hill and around the loop. For example, in my data on Adding hills, when I set the hill height to 5.0 m and the initial drop to 5.0 m. The cart was not able to make it over the hill because there wasn't enough total energy, PE, and KE. The PE at the top was at 2449J, which isn't enough potential energy to make it over the hill. And the KE was at 2448J which still isn't enough to make it over. 
The relationship between KE and PE is that when you add both together, you get the amount of total energy. For example in my data of Adding Hills, when the PE at the top of the initial drop was at 2449J, the amount of TE was 2449J. But when it was at the bottom of the drop, the amount of KE was 2445J. And the amount of PE was at 4, but the amount of total energy was at 2449J still. The Law of Conservation of Energy says that energy cannot be created or destroyed. And this is shown in my data in Adding Hills data when the amount of TE didn't change. The amount of PE just transferred into KE. My data, it shows that when I set the height to 5.0 m. The amount of PE was 2449J, and the amount of TE was 2449J. But when the cart went to the bottom of the hill, the KE was 2445J and the PE was 4J, but the amount of TE was still 2449J. This proves that the Gonzales family needs to make sure that their initial drop is higher than the hills, so then there is enough total energy to go over the hill. Also, when I set the hill height to 4.75 m. There was enough total energy to make it over the hill when the initial drop height was 5 meters. This shows that even making the slightest change, can stay provide enough energy to make over the hill. Still having it be fun and safe. Also, they should make sure the mass of the cart is at 60, so then there can be more TE. Which will provide a faster and more fun ride. For example, in my data of Mass & Energy, when I set the cart weight to 60 kg, there was 2936J TE. But when I set the cart weight to 40 kg, there was only 1957J TE. Making 60 kg a better weight because it provides more TE.

 The relationship between PE and KE is that at the top of the roller coaster, there is always more PE. But as the roller coaster goes down the hill, the PE transfers to KE. Also, PE plus KE equals the amount of total energy in the roller coaster.

   The Gonzales Family needs to make their initial drop height to 3.52 m and the hill needs to be 3.35 m. This is because to have a safe roller coaster, the m/s need to be 8.4 and under so that the ride can be safe. And anything over will make the rider in bad condition and it won't be safe. I think that they should set the initial drop height to 3.52 and the hill to 3.35. This is because my data from drop height and speed when I set the initial drop height to 3.52, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.30 m/s. This shows that putting the initial drop height to 3.52 would provide a safe and fun roller coaster. I also think that the Gonzales family should make the mass of their cart 60 kg. I think this because in my data of mass and speed when I set the mass of the car to 60 kg. The speed at the bottom of the drop was 8.3 m/s. And this shows that when you set the mass to 60 kg, the speed will still be at 8.3 m/s which will provide a safe and fun ride.
  

   Overall, I think that the Gonzales family needs to make their initial drop higher than the hills and loops. This is so then there can be enough total energy to make it over the hills and around the loops. So then everybody who rides the ride will have a fun, enjoyable, exciting, and safe experience. Also, they need to make the cart weigh 60 kg so then there is more TE, which will provide a faster and more fun roller coaster. And they need to make there initial drop 3.52 so then the speed will be 8.3, and it will be a safe and fun roller coaster.
