Dear the Gonzalezes, 

Do you think that a roller coaster is fun? I think they are. We will be talking about that today about how the mass and height of roller coasters affect things by, the thought of how roller coasters are by their height and their intensity if they were good or bad. And decide if you guys want to ride my roller coaster.  

The first piece of evidence that we got from testing was the initial drop. What we found is that when the roller coaster is higher up in the air it has more potential or stationary energy in general but when it goes down the hill that potential energy turns into kinetic energy or moving energy. This can be called the law of conservation of energy and this is when energy is neither created nor destroyed and that is how the energy is transferred over from PE to KE. This is also the total energy of both KE and PE added together to make one total number of both of the energies like PE and KE. But when the ride starts at a lower height the energy is lower because then gravity pulls a part into it because there is more pressure on the car because it wants to go down. But when the car is at a lower height there is not as much pressure on the car and it does not want to go down as hard. As mine has a height of 3m and that will make it go faster but not too fast to kill you but not too slow to be boring and to give the car more speed to go up and down the loops and hills. But when the roller coaster has a hill in it it is the same as the initial drop but then when it goes up the hill  it adds more potential energy because it slows down and lowers in Kinetic because it slows down. But as it goes down the hill it adds more kinetic energy and lowers in PE because the ride is going down towards the earth. The higher the hill is the more energy it will have and the lower the hill is the less energy it will have. Like when the hill was 5 m tall it at the top of the hill had 2443 Joules in PE. But only had 6 Joules in KE for a total amount of energy of 2449, but for one that has a 2 m hill it had 959 joules of PE and 1486 joules of KE giving it a total of 2445 joules of energy. This all shows that when the roller coaster's height is lower the KE is higher than the PE. But when the roller coaster height is taller the KE is LOWER than the PE, because when you're higher up gravity wants to pull you down but when you're lower it does not want to pull you down as much making you faster. The more KE you have the faster you will be but the more PE that you have will slow you down more. The relationship between the mass of the car and the total amount of energy also plays a really big role in how the roller coaster will function. Because when we did some later testing on speed and mass, we came to the conclusion that the roller coaster speed stays the same no matter what the weight of the car, here is some evidence. With a drop height of 3m and a hill height of 2.50m a car mass of 40kg the speed at end of the ride was at 7.65m/s and with a car mass of 60kg the speed at the end of the ride was at 7.65m/s. So no matter how heavy or light the train car is, it will stay the same speed between the 2 cars. In my roller coaster the hill and loop will not change the speed of the trains if they are different weights. As we discovered that in one of the experiments, but will have 1 loop and 1 hill and the main drop, making the ride more fun and making it more thrilling for riders but safe enough that the speeds will not harm anybody. 

In the end you want to have a roller coaster with a higher start height and a higher hill to make the roller coaster more fun and extreme to the passengers who ride the roller coaster. The only thing that we need in a roller coaster is a higher ride height to make it more fun. And would you ride my roller coaster? And do you like roller coasters? 
