My team's roller coaster will make it to the end of the ride and will be safe and fun by measuring how the PE will affect the KE throughout the ride. This can occur while going down the initial drop height, going up and down the hill as well as going through the Loop.

By adding a height to all of the different parts of the Roller Coaster will not only make all the customers happier, but can affect the speed and energy depending on the height. By changing the initial drop height,  it can effect the speed at the bottom of the drop as well as the speed at the top of the Hill. This will allow the car to either move faster throughout the ride or not be able to make it to the end. The best way to guarantee that the car will make it to the end of the ride, is by changing the hill height to where the car will have enough speed to overcome it and still have enough energy to finish the course. According to Initial Drop Height and Speed Exploration Data, when the initial drop height started at a height of 3 meters and the hill height at 2, There was around 7.99 m/s of speed at the bottom of the drop and had a speed of 3.21 m/s at the top of the hill ( There was a total of 7.65 m/s of speed at the end of the ride.) On another Trial where the Initial drop height started at 2.75 meters and the hill height still being the same with 2 meters, there happened to be 7.79 m/s of speed at the bottom of the drop and had 3.50 m/s speed at the top of the hill and ended with 7,85 m/s of speed at the end of the ride. This proves that changing the different heights of the Roller coaster like the Initial drop height, Hills, and Loops can effect the overall speed and energy of the car throughout the ride.

Another thing to keep in mind while designing the roller coaster ride is to measure and calculate how the mass of the car may for may not effect the speed through the ride. Changing the mass of the car will not effect the speed or the Kinetic or Potential energy. According to the Mass and Speed Exploration Data, On trial 2 where the mass of the car weighed 40 kg, it had a speed of 7.66 m/s at the bottom of the drop and made it over the hill with a speed of 2.18 m/s, and ended with a speed of 7.66 m/s. On trial 3 where the mass of the car weighed 60 kg, it maintained the same speed of the car throughout the whole ride as the car that weighed 40 kg with the speed of 7.66 m/s at the bottom of the drop, a speed of 2.22 m/s at the top of the hill and ended with a speed of 7.66 m/s. This proves that changing the mass of the car will not change the speed as well as the potential and Kinetic energy of the car.

Last but not least, another topic for the Gonzales family to keep in mind while designing the roller coaster is how the the relationship between PE, KE, and total energy will affect the ride. The relationship between PE, KE, and total energy will affect the ride of the roller coaster by the PE,  being dependent on the mass of the object and the height the car is above ground. Afterwards, all the PE will be converted to KE because of its motion which can also be measured in Joules and will depend on the mass and speed of the car. The total energy is the sum of both quantities of PE and KE. The Law of Conservation of Energy can take a huge part in the design decisions by the energy changing from Potential to Kinetic energy back again many times over the course of the ride. 

Overall I believe that my team's current roller coaster design will be exciting and will make it to the end of the ride without any problems because of all the adjustments we have made throughout the ride. We did this by changing the mass of the car, as well as the initial drop height and hill height and show how they all correlate to the Law of Conservation of Energy as well as Potential and Kinetic energy.

