
Dear Gonzales Family,

You should consider my roller coaster design because: 


The law of conservation of energy states that 
it is all the same number from start to end.  This means that energy will transfer from KE  energy to  PE energy and back again throughout the ride. 
During my proposal to the Gonzales family, I will be sharing my findings about: the height of the hill the mass of the car of PE KE and told energy. 

The drop height of my roller coaster design is 5 meters.
This is important because has the most PE energy.  

For example, when I tested the drop height of _3.55__ meters, the PE was 1738 Joules. When I increased the drop height to 5 meters, the PE increased  at  2446 Joules. 

PE + KE = TE 
My data supports this equation because in the. initial drop  simulation my roller coaster had 1835 J of PE at the top of the initial drop, it had 1838 J of KE. at the bottom of the initial drop, and it had  1835 J of total energy at the end of the ride. 


Any hills that are added to the ride must be lower then the hill

 as compared to the initial drop height. 
You can see this in my data.
 When I tested a drop height of 5 m and a hill height of 5 m, the roller coaster car did not go over  However, when I tested a drop height of 5 m and a hill height of 3.55  m, the roller coaster car will go over.

Our last experiment was comparing mass and energy. The higher the mass of the car, the higher the total energy.
When I used a car that had a mass of 40 kg, the roller coaster had 1958 J of total energy. When I used a car that had a mass of 43 kg, the roller coaster car had a mass of 2082 kg.   


The initial drop height should be 2.50 m. The higher the initial drop height, the more energy there will be. This initial drop height is also important to keep the ride safe. A drop height of 2.15 m will give you a speed. of 6.99 m/s.

Any hills and loops that follow need to be lower than the initial drop height because:that it  get the energy and speed to go over a small hill.


For this reason, the hill height should be 2.15 m.

Car mass will impact the ride but not not the track. I know this because when the mass was 50 kg, the energy was 8.26 J and the speed was 8.26 m/s. However, when the mass was 51 kg, the energy was 4.48 J and the speed was 8.02m/s.

