     Dear Gonzales family, I feel the best idea for the roller coaster is to have the initial drop height higher than all of your hill heights, don't make the hill the same height as the initial drop either. But if your initial drop height stayed the same at 5.00, and the hill height changed to 4.00 it would make it to the end smoothly. The reason for this is that when you have the initial drop the same as the hill height the cart will not make it to the end of the roller coaster. 
    
     If the initial drop height stayed at 5.00 and the hill height changed to 3.00 the PE at the top of the initial drop would be 2446(J). The KE would stay at 0 at the top and eventually change to 973(J) at the top of the hill. The PE at the top of the hill would be 1474(J) this is important for the roller coaster because it shows what they need for their upcoming rollercoaster. For example, if the initial drop height was at 5.00 and the hill height was 5.00 the roller coaster cart would not make it to the end. The initial drop was KE and PE all throughout it. The Law of Conservation of Energy (LOCOE)-¨Energy cannot be created or destroyed, but... It can convert from one type of energy to another.¨ in a closed system, the total energy is always the same. Types of energy PE, KE, heat energy, & sound energy. Energy in a roller coaster is constantly converted from one form of energy to another, over and over again. The LOCOE is important to this subject because the gravitational pull needs the LOCOE to proceed with a process. PE + KE = TE. 

     Say a park has a roller coaster and the initial drop is 3.50m and the hill is at 3.00m but the mass of the cart is 60kg the speed will not be affected by the mass of the cart. An example of this is if the mass of the cart is 44kg the speed at the bottom is 8.27 m/s the speed at the top of the hill is 3.28m/s and the speed at the end is 8.26m/s. But if the mass of the cart is 54kg the speed at the bottom of the drop is 8.27m/s the speed at the top of the hill is 3.28m/s and the speed at the end is 8.26m/s. my point is they stay the same.
