
 Hello Gonzales family! I'm mailing you my essay about how my roller coaster would be the most popular attraction and how it would run flawlessly without any problems with its design. 
 First it has a fast initial drop ,at 5 m, down into a tunnel then it slowly climbs a hill, gaining 2937 PE to make it over a 2.5m hill. Once it drops, converting it all into 2933 KE and allowing it to make it over the hill and into a drop. With an inversion and then slowing down into a flat area keeping the total energy the same because all the PE turned into KE when it went down the initial drop. 
 And the reason why the initial drop is double the size of the hill is because if the PE on top of the hill is the same as the PE on the top of the initial drop then it won't go over. Like in one of my experiments where the hill and initial drop were both 5m and they coaster didn't make it over the hill, making it roll back and forth. The flat area also shows that the total energy is 2933 which is just all the PE and KE connected. Another reason why I chose this coaster is because it had the most total energy in all my simulations, the closest one was at 2448 which is a good distance away from the best one.
 And all energy in this model is just PE and KE converting into each other once they go down a drop or up a hill. 
Height Impacts this design too, if we make the initial drop too high then it'll gain way too much PE energy and convert it all into KE causing it to go way too fast gaining too much speed and becoming unsafe to ride for anyone. And if you want to add an additional hill you have to make the initial drop height just higher so that it won't have the problem of not making it over the hill. 
     And the mass of the cart can be whatever you want it to be. Because the weight of the cart doesn't change how the cart gains and loses speed, but the important thing is that the energy doesn't change no matter the mass of the cart.  Like in 2 of my simulations where the weight was 40 and 60 kg and it had the same speed at the end in both simulations 8.34 (m/s) and meaning that the energy didn't change throughout the ride at any point, because if it had the total energy and speed would’ve changed and not be the same throughout the experiment. And any energy in this is unaffected by the weight and does not change. 
 The relationship between KE, PE and total energy is that PE and KE transfer into each other and can't be destroyed nor created and can only convert into each other. Meaning that no matter what the initial drop is what really only matters because that shows how fast it'll go. And total energy shows how tall of hill's it can go over.