To have a fun and safe roller coaster, the roller coaster's initial drop should be 5m because you want to have the most PE possible. By going down the initial drop there is more PE turning into KE.PE is the amount of energy you will have going down the drop this should be the same as the total energy, KE is the speed you have at the bottom at the initial drop.f it is less like if it is 2m because you want as much energy as you can get from the initial drop to make it more exciting and so you can have a higher hill height. 
 
The hill should not be bigger than 5m the height of the initial drop, this is because energy can't be created or destroyed so the hill height should be at least 4m tall. If the hill height is 5m and the initial drop height is also 5m you won't have enough energy to make it over the hill so it has to be less than the initial drop.

The total energy is the same amount of PE at the initial drop and PE and KE equals TE. To make sure that the ride is safe you got to make sure you have enough KE to make it over the hill. The total energy is the total amount of PE and KE energy you have, it also is the amount of energy you will have for the whole ride and energy can't be added or destroyed. 

The mass of the car should be 60kg to get the most energy, this is because the more mass the is the faster the car will move down the initial drop and over the hill. The greater the mass The more PE you have at the initial drop and the total energy. 
Our roller coaster is designed the way it is because it will make it fun and also safe have speeds that don't go past 8.4m/s to make it safe but still having speeds that will make it fun
All of my trials show that having a drop height of 3.5 would be the best and having a hill height of 3.25and making the loop 3m so that there is still a lot of speed but enough to keep it safe 
Trial 1 had a max speed of 9.89 m/s and to fast the drop height was 5m. Trials 4&5 had a drop height of 3.27 and 3.30 these worked the best because the speed stayed under 8.5m/s.

The mass of the roller coaster car doesn't affect the speed when I set the mass of the car to 40kg the max speed was 8.37 and when I set it to 50kg it still was 8.37 kg. So this means the roller coaster cart mass doesn't affect the speed of the roller coaster.


