The initial height of the roller coaster directly impacts the total energy of the roller coaster because the higher the roller coaster is, the more energy the coaster car has. This is shown in the "Initial Drop" lab because in the trial where the initial drop was 5 m the total energy was at 2443 Js and during the 2 m high initial drop trial the total energy was at 977 Js. There is a clear increase in energy between the 2 m and the 5 m.
Another thing that affects the energy is the mass of the coaster car. This is shown in the "Mass and Energy" lab. This is shown by the increase of energy during the trials where the coaster cars weigh 40 kg and 60 kg. The 60 kg cart had a total energy of 2938 Js and the 40 kg cart had a total of 1959 Js.

The reason we want the most total energy is because It will affect the Kinetic energy (KE) and the potential energy (PE). All of the energy in a single item/organism is its total energy and at the beginning of the ride is at potential energy, more specifically gravitational potential energy, because due to gravity the cart could potentially move down the hill. When the cart does move, all the PE turns into KE because the cart is in movement. When the cart gets to the bottom and goes up the hill, some KE turns back into PE because gravity give it the potential to go back down again. The reason the PE turns into KE and that KE isnt made is  explained by the Law of the Conservation of Energy, stating that all energy cant be destroyed or created, only transferred.
 
However, a roller coaster isn't just a drop. You need to add hills and loops to make it fun and exciting. During the "Add a Hill'' lab we found out that the hill cannot be the same height as the initial drop. This is shown during the trials because during the trial where the drop and hill height were equal, it was the only trial where the cart couldn't make it over the hill. However in a different trial where the hill was 4.75 m, the cart made it over.

You might wonder why, if the most height gives the most energy, why the drop height I've chosen is 3.5 m, the hill height, 3.25 m, and the loop height 3 m. This is because speed also is a factor in safety and fun. The ride cannot be safe if the speed exceeds 8.4 m/s but the ride isn't considered fun if it goes below 6.3 m/s.
Even though the 5 m hill had the most energy, the speed exceeded the speed limit. This was proven in the "Drop Height and Speed" Lab where it reached a speed of 9.88 m/s which would be unsafe. Even after changing the hill and drop heights, there was only one safe combination, an initial drop height of 3.5 m and a hill height of 2 m which reached a max speed of 8.27 m/s and a min speed of 5.42 m/s.
Even this was not enough because it dips below 6.3 m/s. Eventually however I found the perfect combination with a 3.5 drop, 3.25 hill, and a 3 loop.
In the "Mass and Speed" lab, we made sure that the mass of the car would affect the speed and it was proven it wasnt during the 60 kg trial and the 40 kg trial where they both had a max of 8.27 m/s and a min of 5.51 m/s