Dear Gonzales family,
Many things have to occur to make a ride fun. Release height, mass, energy, Law of Conservation of energy, and G-Force are vital factors in creating a fun, thrilling ride. You, the Gonzales family must consider these things when crafting a roller coaster.

The Potential and Kinetic Energy of a roller coaster rely on the release height or also known as the initial drop of the ride. For example, in trial #4, I experimented with a low release height of 2.5 (m). This completely altered the Potential Energy turned Kinetic Energy the ride had. The Potential Energy lay at an all-time low of 1222 (J). As predicted, this energy quickly turned into Kinetic Energy as the ride progressed. In simple words, the higher the initial height a car has, the larger amount of Potential and Kinetic Energy the ride will have. This makes it more thrilling.  The amount of energy a roller coaster has is also measured using Total Energy. The Total Energy on a Roller Coaster is the energy that remains constant throughout the course of the ride. As mentioned above, Potential energy switches to Kinetic Energy, and back to Potential Energy throughout the ride. The quantity of Potential turned Kinetic Energy in a ride equals the total energy a ride has.  To add additional hills to a ride, it is important to make sure you have enough energy at the beginning of the ride to carry your cart through hills, loops, and drops. For example, it would be a challenge for a car with a low drop height of 2.3 (m) to go through multiple tall hills and still have enough momentum to finish the ride. So, the Gonzales family should take the initial drop height into consideration when constructing more hills. They will want a ride that has a high enough drop to grant it power throughout the whole ride. Another notable factor in crafting a roller coaster is how the release height affects the speed. My group discovered that the coasters with the bigger initial drop always had more speed throughout the course of the ride. A cart with a drop height of 3.55 (m) ended the ride with a grand speed of 8.33 (m/s) meaning the drop granted the coaster enough speed to lie at that high number. 

The mass of a roller coaster is very significant towards the ride. While mass does not affect the speed of a roller coaster directly, the Gonzales family should still take the mass of their rides into consideration. My group discovered that various roller coasters with different masses of 50 (kg) and 55 (kg) had identical speeds at the finish of the ride of 8.20 (m/s). Although mass does not affect the speed of a ride, it does influence the energy of a roller coaster car. My group found a car with a mass of 60 (kg) had 979 (J) more energy at the finish of a ride than a car with a mass of 40 (kg).

The Law of Conservation of Energy states that Energy can neither be created nor destroyed but it can be transformed from one form of Energy to another. Potential Energy changes to Kinetic energy during a ride, and back again. This transformation demonstrates the Law of Conservation Energy and proves it to be correct. We also learned that the PE at the top of the initial drop is equal to the total energy at the end of the ride. Our trials demonstrated this because of a ride with a hill height of 2.35 (m) had 1640 (J) of Potential Energy at the initial drop. This energy in addition to KE equates to the total energy throughout the ride, and the ride concluded with the total energy being 1640 (J). The transformation of PE at the initial drop to total energy at the finish affects the roller coaster because it determines the amount of energy that is available for the rest of the ride. 