Dear Gonzales family, Im back. This time I have a lot more new data to share with you. Im going to split my essay into three parts height, mass, and energy. 

On the final coaster, I made the height of the initial drop about 3.49 m. I did this to raise the total energy of my coaster. I had to make the height of my initial drop high enough to have enough TE (total energy) to get through the whole of my coaster because as I've found in my trials the higher the initial drop the more TE you will get. I then added a hill that is about 3.10m I made this hill this height so that the car will make it over the hill and will have enough energy to make it up the ending slope and the loop that comes after this hill. I also made the height of my roller coaster 3.49 m to make sure that the speed will be funny and thrilling but also safe. See the max speed measured in m/s is just about 8.3 m/3 see if it went over 8.4 m/s it would be dangerous and someone could get hurt. 

The next thing I tweaked was the mass of the coaster was the mass of my car. See in my first design I had my car mass at about 55kg now I have my mass at 50. See the mass of the car affects the amount of TE on the roller coaster this is what I have found in my trials. I realized after some more of my trials that the mass does not affect the whole speed of the coaster at all. I cut back on the mass of the car to help with expenses for my coaster there is nothing that the mass does that affects the thrills of my ride. 

During riding my coaster a lot more is going on than the thrills and speed. The energy going on on my coaster is what is making everything even move. during my coaster at the top of the initial drop, there will be just about 1707 J of Energey throughout my whole ride. This energy will all convert throughout my whole ride. See this because there has to be enough TE for my ride to go. Something I've found in my trials is that if the height of the initial drop is the same or less as your hill all of the PE will convert to KE and there will not be enough energy for the ride to work. This is how the TE affects my ride. 

Thank you and I hope to get back to you soon Gonzales. 
From, Liam 