Dear Gonzales family, I have found out how to make the best roller coaster. To have the most energy you need to have a higher initial drop. Having a higher initial drop gives the roller coaster more total energy which makes it faster. When I had a drop of 5m I had 2424 total energy compared to 977 total energy with a drop of 2m. This data shows that a higher initial drop gives the roller coaster more total energy.

 When the roller coaster car moves down the hill it converts its potential energy into kinetic energy. The kinetic energy and potential energy combined make the total energy. I know this because the potential energy and kinetic energy combined always equal the total energy in my data. When the kinetic energy was 1 and the potential energy was 2423 the total energy was 2424. Also when the kinetic energy was 976 and the potential energy was 1 the total energy was 977. the data shows that potential energy and kinetic energy combine to make total energy.

 The law of conservation of energy shows us that energy cannot be created or destroyed. This means that if you add a hill to the roller coaster the hill has to be shorter than the initial drop. My data showed that if the starting height is 5m and the hill height is 5m the car will not go over the hill. this is compared to when the starting height is 5m and the hill height is 4m and the car goes over the hill.

 If we give the car more mass the roller coaster will go at a faster and more exciting pace. I know this because when I had a mass of 60 kg my car had a total energy of 2934. this is compared to when my car had a total energy of 40 kg and the car had a total energy of 1956



We need the roller coaster to be safe so we can't have the initial drop be too high. If the roller coaster goes faster than 8.4 meters per second it isn't considered safe. My data shows that 3.5 is the best-starting height. drop height 3.5 speed at bottom of hill 8.3. This isn't going too fast but it is still very fast so it will be an exciting ride.

