Dear Gonzales family,

When making roller coasters, It needs to be fun and exciting while still making it to the end of the ride. With my scientific explanations, I will explain why my team’s roller coaster car will be the best roller coaster design by being safe and fun while still making it to the end of the ride without stopping.

The relationship between potential energy and kinetic energy is, when the thing or object starts to lose it's potential energy, the energy is being converted into kinetic energy which creates the total energy at the end. For example when the coaster was going down the initial drop it was losing its potential energy and being converted into kinetic energy. And by the bottom of the drop there was no potential energy, only kinetic energy.

Initial drop height affects the energy. For example when the release height was at 5.00 meters, the potential energy had 2443 Joules. And when the release height was at 2.50 meters, the potential energy had 1222 Joules. The higher the potential energy, the higher the number of Joules for kinetic energy, which is needed to make it to the end of the ride. 

Hill heights need to be shorter than the initial drop height. Since the Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy can neither be created nor destroyed, only converted from one form of energy to another. In order for the coaster to make it to the end, the hill height must be shorter than the initial drop, or else it won't make it to the end of the ride. For example when my hill height was at 5.00 meters with my initial drop at 2.50 meters, the coaster wasn't able to make it up the hill because there wasn't enough potential energy. Then when the hill height was at 2.00 meters the coaster was able to make it up the hill and to the end of the ride because the initial drop was higher up than the hill and had more potential energy. 

The mass of the coaster affects the energy. When the car mass was at 40kg with an initial drop height of 5.00 meters, the PE had a sum of 1955J. When the car mass was at 60kg with an initial drop height of 5.00 meters, the PE had a sum of 2933J which was more likely to go up the hill and make it to the end of the ride. 

Initial drop height affects the speed of the coaster. The higher the initial drop the greater amount of total speed at the end of the ride. For example, when my initial drop was at 5.00 m, the speed at the end of the ride was at 9.88 m/s. And when the initial drop was at 2.99 m, the speed at the end was at 7.64 m/s. The max speed for it to be considered safe is 8.4 m/s. So the initial drop at 5.00 m wouldn't work because it would be dangerous for riders. 

Mass does not affect the speed. If you increase or decrease the mass, the speed stays the same. This is because the mass doesn't change at any point on the roller coasters and the velocity will stay the same no matter the mass of the car. For example, when my car mass was at 50, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 7.64 m/s. And when my car mass was at 40, the speed at the bottom of the drop was 7.64 m/s. Both the speed at the end of the ride was 7.64 m/s.

These are all the things that will make my team’s roller coaster the best roller coaster design because it is safe, fun, and can make it to the end of the ride without stopping. 


