Dear Gondolas Family Some co-workers and I plan on trying to help you make a roller coaster ride for your park we found some things to help that I will tell you in the next few paragraphs.

We think that the smiler would be a great addition to your park. We have tested a few things and the first thing I would like to discuss is the height that I think is best for your roller coaster.KE is Kenitic energy and PE is potential energy. So we can make this ride the best ride for the riders we should make the height for the initial drop 5.00j. The initial drop should be 5.00j because the PE at the top of the drop was enough to let it get over a few hills. for example, the PE at the top was 2443j and at the bottom, KE was at 1j so that shows that we lose KE the more PE we get during the ride and the more KE we get the more PE we lose. The PE transfers into KE and the KE transfers into PE. The times PE transfers to KE is when you're going down a hill and KE transfers to PE when you go up the hill. The total energy is how much energy is in the ride like PE and KE combined. The law of conservation is that energy can't be created or destroyed for example you always end with the same amount that you start with. like for example in my data for mass and energy, I started out with 50 mass and I had 1958 energy as the ride went on the energy in the end stayed the same and turned out to be 1958.

Another thing we should discuss is the height of the hill I think the height of the hill should be 3.00j. I think it should be 3.00j because it is low enough that we have enough KE to get over the hill. We have 518j KE at the bottom of the hill which will go down the more we go up and go up the more we go down so it's enough to help us get over the hill. Sometimes if the hill is bigger than the initial drop the cart can't get over. For example one part of my data the initial drop was 4.50j and the hill was 5.00j the cart got stuck and started going backward and ended up going from side to side not making it up the hill.

The last thing I think we should discuss is the mass of the cart. We should have the mass of the cart at 50. The cart should be at 50 because the bigger the mass of the cart the faster we go. The cart PE at the top of the drop was 1566j and the KE at the bottom of the drop was 1952j. So I think we should have it at 50 because then it's the perfect weight to get the cart to go fast and still get over the hills.

In conclusion, I think you should the Smiler to your park. Because it has the perfect hill height to give riders that thrill. It has the drop at the start to get the roller coaster moving. And it has the perfect mass of the cart to give the riders the feeling that they are going fast. And the smiler has everything to make the roller coaster go like the hill height you can get over. The mass of the car doesn't tamper with the speed and it follows the law of conservation.