    Hello Gonzales, I would like to propose my roller coaster to you. It would be a fine addition to your amusement park. But first I wanna talk about the Height, Mass, and Energy. These factors all go into our coaster. 
    Our initial height drop will be at a height of 3.5 meters. We chose this height because as we can see from the data a drop height of 5 meters has a speed of 9.88. And a drop height of 3.5 meters has a speed of 8.26. This shows how initial drop height affects the speed that is produced. The higher the drop the more speed the coaster will have. We also chose this height because it has a perfect speed of 8.26. Anything faster than 8.44 it can be deadly to the riders. Initial drop height also affects the Total energy of the coaster. The higher the drop height the more PE is stored and the more KE is produced. Now I will talk about additional hills. The best way to add hills to your roller coaster is to make sure its shorter then the initial drop height. This allows the coaster to make it over the hill and finish the ride. Because of this our coaster has a hill of 3 meters. We wanted to maximize the amount of energy we could get out of the hill. 
    Now I will move on to Mass. The more mass you have the more Total energy the coaster will have. This is because the more mass and object has the more PE it can store and the more KE it can produce. Next I will talk about how mass affects speed. Mass does not affect speed as we can see from the data. A car mass of 60 kg has a speed of 8.27. A car mass of 40 kg also has a speed of 8.27. This shows mass does not affect speed. With this information our coaster will have a mass of 50 Kg.
    Moving on to the relationship between PE, KE, and TE. Potential energy is energy that is stored and is found at the top of the initial drop and hills. Kinetic energy is the energy an object has because of its motion. The PE gets converted to KE. These two energy's combined are called Total energy. That is the amount of energy the coaster has in all. Total energy never changes for a roller coaster. This is because of the Law of Conservation of energy. This is where energy cannot be created or destroyed. This Law is conveyed all over the coaster. 
    So Gonzales I hope you chose our coaster to add to your amusement park.  
