I recommend that the Gonzales family could make the roller coaster last longer to make people think that they are getting their money's worth. I also recommend that they make it more fun as well and hear how i think they can do that. First what they could do to make it last longer is have it go in loops so that the Gonzales family don't have to make the roller coaster long itself, just the time. What i mean by that is instead of them going around the track only one time, the Gonzales family could make it go around two time instead. A way that they can make it more fun is adding more twist and turns to their roller coasters. An idea for a roller coaster is that they can use a boost to boost the cart up 5 meters and add a few hills starting at 4, then 3.5, then 3, and so on until 2. The reason why i think the initial drop should be 5 meters is so that the cart has enough energy to make it over the 4 meter hill. And then after the car makes it over the 4 meter hill the drop will be giving them enough energy to make it over the 3.5 meter hill. And then after the car makes it over the 3.5 meter hill it will have enough energy to make it over the 3 meter hill and then it goes on and on. So that is my ideas to the Gonzales family to make their roller coasters better. I recommend that the Gonzales family could use my roller coaster design and here's why. My ride is very safe. The initial drop starts at 3.25 meters. The total speed is at 7.96 m/s making it safe enough to ride. It is also safe because when it reaches the top of the hill, it is only going 2.15 m/s. The PE at the initial drop is 1977 and when it reaches the bottom of the initial drop it will be at 1477 KE making it safe enough to make it over the hill.  My roller coaster is also very fun because it goes over three different hill. The heights of those hills are 3 meters, 2.75 meters, and then 2 meters. My roller coaster also goes around the ride twice instead of only one time to make the people feel they are getting their moneys worth.