Dear Gonzalez Family,
       During the Roller coaster and energy analysis, we learned about PE and KE at the top of and throughout roller coasters. We also learned about the initial drop and the relation between KE and PE.
    
 I believe we should make a roller coaster with a release height of 5m. This is the initial drop. We want a higher initial drop because that will create a higher PE. I know this because when I tried it with a drop height of 5m the PE was 2444J. The KE will always be 0 at the top of the initial drop. This is because it is stored energy. 
  
  The higher the PE and KE higher the total energy will be. With higher energy, it will be more of an interesting ride for riders. With more PE it will give the cart more energy to get over hills or loops. This is also because of the Law of Conservation because energy can only be converted not created or destroyed. Gonzalez family should make a hill height of around 4.51m. I believe they should do this because they will have enough KE from the initial drop to get around the hill. The initial drop should never be lower than the hill height.
  
  The car changes because when the car goes down the initial drop PE and KE stays the same. I know it stays the same because in my data it says,  977J for PE and 0J for KE. The total energy was also 977J.I think this happened because there would be nowhere for the energy to be created or destroyed. The Law of Conservation says that energy can't be created or destroyed only converted and energy had not been converted yet because this was at the bottom of the initial drop.

   The mass in the car will affect the KE and PE in the roller coaster. With a higher mass the more energy it will take for the cart to get over hills and loops. We want a lower mass because I believe it will make the ride more fun. I know this because I had a cart with a mass of 40 and the PE at the top of the initial drop was 1959 and KE of 1869. I also tried it with a higher mass of 60g and it was 2938 for PE and KE was 2908. More total energy with a higher mass too. It was 2938J and 40 was 1959 for the total energy.

    Changing the initial drop in the roller coaster mainly affects the speed. You can tell this by looking at different drop heights and speeds. Some data I have to prove this is with a drop height of 2.72m and a Hill height of 2.50. The speed on this was 7.3. This is a good drop height because if it were to be higher it wouldn't be a safe ride. I know this because with a drop height of 5m the speed at the bottom of the drop was 9.85 m/s and that is an unsafe speed for riders. Adding hills is a good way to gain energy to make it to the end of the ride. 
 
      No matter how high or low the mass, it will not affect the speed. We know this because with all the trials there was a total of 9.38. So it won't matter what we make the mass.

  In the end,  PE and KE can't be created or destroyed only converted into new forms. And at the top of the hill, PE is always higher than KE, and PE and KE always equal the total energy.       
    