This is my final part of my proposal for why my rollercoaster would be the best addition to the theme park. During this I will be diving more deeply into the safety factors of the rollercoaster while of course making sure it is still fun. So during this I will talk about height, mass, and energy while also getting into what a safe speed is. First I'm going to talk about how changing the initial drop height affects the energy. When you have a greater initial drop height you have greater total energy (TE) and lower initial drop height means lower energy. This is shown in my trials from Initial Drop Data with an initial drop height of 5m and PE of 2443 J (KE of 0 J) at the top of the initial drop. But when I had a lower initial drop height in Initial Drop Data which was a drop height of 2m the PE was only 977 J (KE 0 J). We also need to know what the best way to add hills to the rollercoaster is. You need enough energy to get over the hill so the hill height must be less than the height of the previous drop if it's the initial drop or another hill. This is shown in Adding Hills data where there was a controlled variable of the initial drop height being 5 m and in the trial with a hill height of 4.75 m the car made it over but with the hill height at 5 m the car did not make it over. Initial drop height also affects speed. This is shown in my tirals for Drop Height & Speed. When there was an initial drop height of 3.25 m the maximum speed was 7.97 m/s. When there was an initial drop ehight of 5 m the max speed was 9.88 m/s. Now you would think the faster ride would be the better option here but you have to take safety into consideration the maximum safe speed for a rollercoaster would be 8.4 m/s. So I did more trials to test to get to that max speed that is still within safe measures. I found that with an initial drop height of 3.61 m you have a max speed of 8.4 m/s wich makes the ride fast and safe. There is also a relationship between mass and energy. As shown in Mass & Energy Data when there was a car mass of 40 kg the TE was 1957 J but with a car mass of 60 kg the TE was 2936 J. This shows a greater mass means a greater amount of TE. There is also the idea that changing the mass of the rollercoaster car will affect the speed. But that is wrong. As shown in trials from Mass & Speed when the car had a mass of 40 kg maximum speed was 8.4 m/s and when the car had a mass of 60 kg there was a max speed of 8.4 m/s. There were also the same results of a max speed of 8.4 m/s for all of the other trials. But why does mass not affect it? Mass does not affect speed because of the law of consevation of energy so the equations for PE and KE have to equal eachother so mass*gravity*height=0.5*mass*speed^2 and this means since the mass does not change throughout the ride it can cancel out making the equation gravity*height=0.5*speed^2. There is also the relationship between potential energy (PE), kinetic energy (KE), and total energy (TE). Which all tie into the law of consevation of energy. Which states that energy cannot be created or destroyed within a closed system. So it can only transfer between different types of energy in this case PE and KE with the TE always staying the same. This affects the ride due to how much PE there is in relation to how much KE there is. Keeping in mind the TE will always be the same. As a car goes down a drop PE decreases and transfers to KE which in turn increases. So at the start it would all be PE and 0 J of KE. In the middle of the drop it would transfer to about half of the TE would be PE the other half KE. Then at the bottom all/most of the energy would be transfered to KE and no/1-4 J of PE. Since I am going to have the safest and most fun roller coster that is why you should choose my design.
