My roller coaster design has an initial drop height of 5 meters. I chose this height because the higher your initial drop is, the more PE you will have. When you have more PE at the top, you will also have more KE at the bottom. I saw this in my data when I did a drop height of 2 meters I only had 977 J of PE at the top and 977 J of KE at the bottom. However, when I had a drop height of 5 meters I had 2443 J of PE at the top and 2443 J of KE at the bottom. From this data, we can see that as we increase our drop height we will also increase the energy of the roller coaster.
The relationship between PE, KE, and Total Energy is that PE and KE will have a cycle of trading joules back and forth forever in a frictionless environment. However, your total energy will never change from its original value. We can see this in our data as PE moves from 2443 J to just 1 joule throughout the roller coaster, and KE goes from 0 joules to 2442 j. The total energy will never change because energy cannot be created nor destroyed which means that the sum of the PE and KE will never be different than it was at the start at any point in the ride. This can be explained using the above data as we see that the sum of the PE and KE never equals any more or less than 2443 j of total energy.
As we go down the drop we see the PE go from a large number of joules down to none. This is because the formula for finding PE includes height so the higher you are the more PE you have. Throughout the drop, KE increases from 0 j to the amount of j that you had of PE at the top of the drop. We can see this in our data when we see that in one of our trials, we started with 977 joules of PE and ended with 0 j. In this trial, we also started with 0 j of KE and throughout the drop, increased to 977 j at the bottom.
We have seen that our total energy can not change because of the Law of Conservation of Energy. We see in our trials that if we have a total energy of 977 j, even though the KE and PE transfer back and forth throughout the drop, the total energy will never change from 977 j.
From our trials, we have seen that our drop height must be higher than the hill height. From our data, we saw that we saw that any hill height that was lower than the drop could be used and the car would make it to the end. However, as soon as the hill is higher than or the same as the drop height, the car will not reach the end. For example, when the initial drop was 5m and the hill height was 4m the car had no problem going over it. But when the initial drop height was 5m and the hill height was also 5m the car was not able to go over the hill. The more mass the car has the more PE and KE it will have. We see this in our data because the car mass of 40 kg only had 1956 j of PE and KE. When we had a car mass of 60 kg we had 2934 j of PE and KE.
