We are going to gave are roller coaster drop height of 5 meters doing so has the perfect amount of potential energy and just enough potential energy at the bottom. We calculated the perfect amount of potential energy and kinetic energy to make the ride safe and fun at the same time. We also got the perfect amount of energy at the bottom of the coaster. So then it can make it up the 4 meter tall hill. We got rid of friction. The relationship between the drop and the initial drop is 1 meter. Are roller coaster is going to have a mass of 45 kg to make the coaster perfectly safe and fun. We have made this coaster to be the most fun and safe roller coaster but also make it to the perfect amount between friction, potential energy and kinetic energy. so then it is perfectly safe and fun.

We have made this roller coaster  to be the safest and the most fun roller coaster so then it is fun and reliable and safe so then we can prevent the bad things that may happen during the roller coaster. Also then we can make the roller coaster fun reliable and extremely safe. We have done many test and problem solving to make this coaster the most fun and safe reliable roller coaster you can ride. we also made this roller coaster having many twist and turns to make it fun and safe. We are constantly adding to ideas and things we can changes to make this ride enjoyable. We also are adding many different things to make the ride scary but extremely fun and safe. We have calculated the perfect amount of potential energy and kinetic energy but with a little bit of friction. We have added many different twist and turns but are concerned that we may not have enough speed to get through the entire roller coaster.

We are constantly changing and modifying are roller coaster to be the safest it could possibly be so then we do not have problems and the people can enjoy the coaster. the total amount of energy is 1956 of the coaster the kinetic energy and potential energy  will always be the same but just little changes. the amount of energy is constant. the energy transformation does not change between the potential energy and kinetic energy. at the start of the roller coaster the potential energy is the same as the kinetic energy at the end or very not very different at the end. The relationship between the initial drop will always make it over the hill if the hill is shorter then the initial drop.