The initial drop should be around 50-100 yards(3x50 or 100) high and the car should be around 40 KG. And I say this because if you have a high drop you'll have a lot more PE(potential energy) than if you add a lower drop. And on top of this, a higher drop means you can have the coaster go longer or higher. On top of this, you'll have more KE(kinetic energy) thus buying you more times to add hills for the car/coaster to go up. This means you can A) charge more. B) get more people to ride your coaster. C) have more creative freedom.
And even more so you could add a loop if wanted. With all the extra PE to convert into KE you'll have more TE(total energy). To have the car spend on things like hills, loops, twists, and ECT.
Although you may want to consider how many people you're gonna have per car. Seeing as the weight will also heavily impact how the coaster performs. And on top of that, how much TE, KE, and PE the coaster will hold/have. Less of each will mean it won't perform as well depending on what you're planning on doing. For example, let us say like a lot of cramped hills. Sure that's possibly a good idea for a low-drop and light car. But it wouldn't be too well for a big car. Now if they were tall hills and/or loops with a high drop. Yeah, that'll work better. Point is, You'll wanna think about how high it'll be and how heavy the car will be.

In between all of this, Total energy is the total amount of energy at ANY given point in time. If that means you're falling at 9.8 FPS. Then so be it. THere's TE in that too. Or if you're on a roller coaster. SO BE IT! THERE'S TE IN THAT TOO! Or even if you're flipping a page of a book. As long as there's PE and KE on it. There's BOUND to be TE

Seeing as PE/KE and mass are DIRECTLY(one goes up the other goes up) related to each other.  And I say this because of the fact that you can't create nor destroy energy. Now all this testing was done in a frictionless simulation. But it does show that you need to have something of a balance when it comes to energy shift and energy transformation.
Before I go I also want to say a few things. When going down a drop you have a lot of PE at the top. But as you go down a drop your PE converts into 'useless energy'(which doesn't affect us in the simulations I ran. But it will later) and KE. Now the KE converts BACK into PE as it goes UP as hill/drop. So you do really have to think about how you want your drops to go.