We are starting our rollercoaster drop height at 5m.
The reason for this is that we think it will be most exciting for the riders because it was the highest option and also because you will gain the most speed from dropping from that height than you would on anything lower.
         The drop height relates to pe because pe would be greater if higher and same with ke and the bottom. The drop height relates to the kinetic energy at the bottom. After the cart went through the roller coaster at the bottom there would be a lot less potential energy and a lot of kinetic energy. This is because the object went through a ton of speed to get to the bottom. So like for our roller coaster since it drops from a high height it has lots of potential energy at the start and then has a bunch of kinetic energy at the bottom.
         Potential energy is the energy inside the object. Kinetic energy is the energy of a moving object so all rollercoasters at the start have 0 kinetic energy because the cart is not moving but has a lot of potential energy. But once the cart goes through the rollercoaster it gets flip-flopped and kinetic energy becomes bigger number by a lot because the cart just was moving very fast and a lot. The total energy is kinetic energy and potential energy together and the total energy is usually around the same number as it was at the top of the drop and at the bottom.
       While the cart goes down the drop the potential starts to decrease very quickly and the kinetic energy number increases really quickly because the cart is moving and not just sitting still.
      The Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. So, for example, energy throughout a roller coaster is not getting destroyed it's either switching or the friction is turning into mechanical energy which turns into other forms of energy like heat+ thermal energy, and sound energy.
      My group has our initial drop higher a couple of meters higher than the hill because if the drop was the same or shorter it would be risky and unsafe. It would also be less likely for the cart to make it over the hill because it doesn't have enough energy/kinetic energy to get all the way up and down the hill.
      Whenever something has more mass it will have more energy. Yesterday when we were doing trials with different car masses my group noticed that the higher the mass was the more energy. The quicker the cart went through the rollercoaster. We also noticed that when the mass was lower it sometimes wouldn't make it up hills or get all the way through.

       