I think that the height of the initial drop should be 5 meters. This is the best height because it will create the most potential energy at the top of the drop and the most kinetic energy at the bottom. For example, when the initial drop height was 3 m, the potential energy at the top of the initial drop was 1466 J. However, when the initial drop height was 5 m, the potential energy was 2443 J at the top of the initial drop. A similar thing happens to the kinetic energy at the bottom of the initial drop. When the release height was 3 m, the kinetic energy at the bottom was 1465 J, while when the release height was 5 m, the kinetic energy at the bottom was 2442 J. Having an initial drop height of 5 m will make this ride more fun and exciting.
At the top of the drop, the potential energy is equal to the total energy because the kinetic energy is at 0 J. This is because the car is not moving- kinetic energy comes from motion. As the car travels down the drop, it gains more kinetic energy because it is picking up speed and loses potential energy because it doesn't have as much height. This is not because energy is being created or destroyed- in fact, the Law of Conservation of Energy says this is impossible. The energies are transferring among themselves as the car moves through the ride. 
I think the best hill height would be 3 meters. If the height of the hill is equal to or greater than the height of the initial drop, the car will not continue to the end of the ride. For example, when the height of the hill is equal to the height of the initial drop, which in this case is 5 m, the car did not reach the end. However, when the hill height was 3 m, it did reach the end. Putting the hill height at 3 m will make it so the car will not stop before it is supposed to but will also be fun and fast. 
The best mass of the car would be 50 kg. For example, when the mass of the car is 50 kg, the potential energy is 2444 J at the top of the initial drop and 2436 J of kinetic energy at the bottom. When the car mass is 40 kg, the potential energy at the top of the initial drop is 1955 J and the kinetic energy at the bottom is 1949 J. The car will move faster and therefore be more exciting with 50 kg than 40 kg, but not be too heavy to not be able to make it over hills. 
All of these trials were conducted without friction, but I know that there would be friction in the real world. With friction, the kinetic energy at the bottom of the drop would not be as close to the potential energy at the top of the drop because some of the energy would turn into a non-mechanical kind of energy like thermal energy. 