There are many contributing factors and variables that go into designing a roller coaster that will be functional but still enjoyable for the rider.

A non negotiable factor for the best possible roller coaster design would be a decently high drop height. The initial drop height of the coaster has a huge impact whether or not the roller coaster will work. The initial drop height affects the amount of total energy present. The greater the height of the initial drop the more total energy. (PE+KE=TE) At the top of a track that has a higher initial drop height there is a larger amount of PE present (there would be 0 KE present). At the bottom of that same track there will be the same amount of total energy, just converted to KE. This is due to the fact that, at the top of the track the car is not in motion and therefore storing energy. This is the reason that all of the present energy is PE. There is all KE at the bottom or end of the coaster due to the motion of the coaster. The higher the initial drop, the more total energy there is. The date I collected proves this because in a trial where the initial drop height it 2m the total energy is 1067J. A trial with an initial drop height of 4m has a total energy of 2124J.

If a hill on the coaster is too tall, the car will not make it over. There would be no KE when it got to the highest point of the hill because the car wouldn't be in motion. In a trial with the hill height of 5m and the initial drop height of 4.5m the car didn't not go over and had 0 KE and the highest point it could be on the hill. If it did make it over the hill then the amount of KE and PE at the top of the hill was dependent on the height of the hill. The total energy would equal the amounts of KE and PE. At the top of the Initial drop there is 0 KE, the car's not in motion. At the top of a hill there is an amount of KE due to the fact that the car is in motion. The PE at the top of the initial drop equals the  PE+KE at the top of the hill. Any hills on this coaster need to be lower then the initial drop height for the car to go over.  More energy is required to get over a hill that is taller than the initial drop height. The law of conservation states that energy can't be created so when the initial drop height is lower than the hill there is not enough energy for the car to go over the hill.

This roller coaster car also will need a decent amount of mass. The more mass the car has the greater the amount of total energy.  A greater mass allows the car to move faster, the faster the car is moving the more energy it has. A car having the mass of 60kg moves faster along the track compared to a car with the mass of 40kg. The greater amount of energy has to come from somewhere, as the law of conservation says, energy can't be created or destroyed. In this case the energy come from a greater mass and therefore a greater speed.

As mentioned before and clearly highlighted here, there are many factors that go into creating the perfect roller coaster. Even a slight mistake or change in certain aspects of the coaster could affect the integrity making the coaster not able to be ridden, therefore it is extremely important to be precises and understand the science behind making a roller coaster work. 