Dear Gonzales Family, I propose that the total amount of energy at the bottom and top of the initial drop should be the same but the KE and PE should be different. For example, in trial number 2 the amount of KE is 0, the amount of PE is 1466 and the TE is 1466. This was at the beginning of the ride, when PE and KE are added they should always equal the TE. At the bottom of this same ride, the PE is at 1 and the KE is at 1465, when added they equal 1466. This shows that the total energy stays the same the whole ride. The Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. This is true because the total amount of energy in trial 2 stays the same the whole time, while the energy is transformed from PE to KE.  

When a hill is added to a rollercoaster the hill's height has to be less than the initial drop or the car will not make it over. For example in trial number 3 when the drop height and hill height are the same, the car doesn't have enough energy to make it over the hill. This is because it doesn't have the extra energy from the initial drop because it already used it up trying to get over the hill that is the same height. When a rollercoaster car goes down the initial drop and then up a hill, the energy is converted back and forth from KE and PE. This happens in trial number 2 which states the PE at the top of the initial drop is 1958 and the KE is 0. When the rollercoaster car reaches the top of the hill it doesn't come to a complete stop the PE is 1228 and the KE is 727, the total energy stays the same. This shows that the energy is converted from KE and PE because no energy is added or subtracted. 

The mass of the rollercoaster car also affects the KE and PE. For example, a car of 40kg has a total energy of 1567 while a car of 60kg has a total energy of 2350. This shows that the mass of the rollercoaster car affects how much total energy there is. 

In conclusion, the roller coaster should have an initial drop higher than the hill, and the mass of the roller coaster should depend on how much energy you want the ride to have.