For you, the Gonzalez family, we have created an exciting quick but safe roller coaster design! Some of your ideas (such as hills higher than drops) cannot be implemented due to energy issues I will further explain in future paragraphs. I can assure you after I explain the science behind how these coasters work, and how we will build your coaster, you will love this design. 

The first important implementation of the coaster will be the drop, which we will make at a height of 5 meters. We did many trials to test this, and we discovered that the potential energy at the top of 5 meters (2443 joules) is significantly more than the potential energy at a drop of 2 meters (977 joules). These trials proved our theory that height affects the potential energy in a system. So, with this starting height, you will get the maximum amount of potential energy that height can affect. This allows the coaster to have a lot of potential energy that will convert into the kinetic energy necessary to get over any hills. How this system works is that the potential energy in the start equals the total energy, and as the coaster goes on that potential energy turns into kinetic energy (all while still equaling the same amount of total energy). Basically, the system never loses or creates energy, it simply converts it, so as long as you have a lot of potential energy, your total energy will be very high. 
 
Now, a roller coaster can't just have a drop, which is why we have decided it should have numerous hills to go over! These hills will all be lower than the initial drop height, but just barely. For the car to get to the end of a ride, it must be able to get over the hills, which is impossible if the hills are the same height or taller than the initial drop. This is because to get over a hill of equal or taller height, the cart would need more potential energy than the drop gave it. This is physically impossible due to energy not being able to be created or destroyed, and therefore the hills have to be shorter. We learned this information through trials. In one trial we found that if a hill was 5 meters (the same height as the drop) it would reach the same amount of kinetic energy as the drop and would not go over. In a different trial we discovered that if a hill was slightly smaller than the 5 meter drop, so about 4.75 meters, it would get a little less potential energy that the initial drop, and it would be able to go over. This data proved our theory that we need the hills to be smaller than the drop to make an effective roller coaster. To add to the excitement we will make the hills go in order getting slightly smaller each time to make sure the cart can get to the end. With smaller drops in the start of the hill, there will be less and less KE converting each time as it moves down the hill. This will keep it fast, but slow enough to safely stop.  The first hill will be 4.75 meters, the second will be 4.5 meters, the third will be 4.25 meters, the fourth will be 4 meters,  and the fifth will be 3 meters.

The third thing we considered when designing your coaster was the weight of the car. After a lot of consideration, we have decided that a car of 60 kilograms would best suit your coaster. So, when choosing, we have decided on this weight due to the amount of potential energy a car with a greater mass has, compared to a smaller one. Cars with greater mass have been proven through experiments to carry significantly more potential energy, showing that mass affects the total energy in an object. Our evidence when we tested this showed that a car of 60 kilograms when dropped from 5 meters, we got 2937 joules of potential energy. When we tested how much potential energy we got from a car of 40 kilograms when dropped from 5 meters, we got 1956 joules. When we compare these data points we can visibly see that the car with more mass gains much more potential energy, which once again proves our theory.  As the car moves down this significant amount of energy will convert into as much kinetic energy as possible that you could safely have. If you combine this with how tall the drop will be, the coaster will be extremely fast, making it all the more exciting.  

Now before I sum up this essay I should explain why potential energy is so important. Potential energy in the start of the roller coaster equals the total amount of the energy in the roller coaster altogether. Total energy is vastly important because that is all the energy possibly allowed in the system. If your total energy is lower, you won't be able to get nearly as much kinetic energy, and your roller coaster may be very slow, dysfunctional, and it might not even move if the total energy is low enough. All in all, it is heavily important that you make this roller coaster specifically tailored to have as much total energy possible (without making it unsafe). 
 
Our decision was carefully made so a drop height of 5 meters, 5 hills that get smaller, and a car with a mass of 60 kilograms, is the best design choice. All of these design choices combined will, and I assure you with my full confidence, make one of the most exciting and safe coasters in your park.