1. Your drop height should be 3 meters because the higher the initial drop height the higher the PE will be at the start.
2. And if you have a higher PE while your ride is going more PE will be transferred into KE which the more KE you have the farther and faster the ride will be able to go.
3. Like in one of my trials when I started with a lower height like 2m I only had 973J of PE which made the KE only increase u to 972J while the ride ended.
4. Then in another trial, I started with an initial drop of 2.5m so I had 1216J of PE and at the end, I had 1215J of KE.
5. The Higher the initial drop is again the higher the PE will be at the start and because there is no KE at the top the Total energy will always stay at 973J.
6. This is according to the law of conservation of energy, energy can not be created or destroyed.
7. The total amount of PE and KE added up will be the same the whole ride.
8. So because the PE is high at the top of the drop and the KE is high at the bottom energy and can never be created or destroyed the PE transfers over into KE during the ride Causing the PE to decrease and the KE to increase.
9. But the initial height isn't the only thing that impacts the height the car mass also does.
10. The more mass the car has the height the PE will be at the beginning which would lead to more KE.
11. So the more mass the more PE which means More KE.
12. At the top of the hill, you will have a certain PE, and if you add a hill that is lower than the initial drop height your car will be able to make it over the hill because the PE will be able to transfer over into enough KE to make it over the hill.
13. But if you had a hill that was higher then Initial drop the PE at the start will not be able to transfer into enough ke to make it over the hill.
14. I know this because in my first trial I started with an initial drop of 3 and a hill height of 2 and the car was able to make it over.
15. But in my third trial I also had an initial drop of 3 but I also had heel height of 3 and the car was not able to make it over the hill.