1. Based on my data the initial drop height should be 5m this is because when I put the initial drop at 2m the amount of potential energy at the beginning was 1110J and for Kinetic energy it was 1110J at the end of the drop.
2. When I did 5m though the amount of potential energy increased to 2775J and for kinetic energy, it increased to 2775J at the end of the drop.
3. this means that the more height there is the more total energy there is.
4. In the simulation where there is no friction, the relationship between potential energy, kinetic energy, and total energy was that the amount of total energy was the same as the amount of potential energy at the beginning and the total energy was the same as the kinetic energy at the end.
5. this means that the amount of energy should stay the same.
6. When I was testing the initial drop for the rollercoaster I saw that cart started with 2775J of potential energy and 0J of kinetic energy, as the cart went down the drop it lost potential energy and it converted into kinetic energy so at the end of the drop the cart had 0J of potential energy and 2775J of kinetic energy.
7. This is because the law of conservation of energy states that energy can't be created or destroyed but it can convert into other types of energy and that is what is happening in the model.
8. This then leads me to the relationship between drop and hill height.
9. When I was testing in the simulation I found out that the hill has to be shorter than the initial drop height.
10. When I put the hill height at 2m and the initial drop at 5m the cart had no problem with getting over the hill but when I put the hill height at 5m and the initial drop at 5m the cart did not make it to the end of the ride.
11. Finally, when I tested different masses of the cart I noticed that the more mass there was the more PE there was at the start of the ride and more kinetic energy at the end of the ride.
12. when I tested it I put the mass of the cart at 40kg and the amount of potential energy was 1957J and the start and 1957J of kinetic energy at the end but when I tested the cart at 60kg the amount of potential energy was 2936J at the start and 2936J of kinetic energy at the end of the ride.
13. This then means that the amount of weight in the cart should be around 60kg.