Greetings Gonzales family as you know I have made a design for your roller coaster. I think the initial drop height should be 60 m and then have a hill that is 50 m tall and I will explain to you why I think this.
You said you wanted an exciting roller coaster so I made the drop height 60 m.  I didn't want to make it too tall and have it take up too much space but I also didn't want it to be boring.  Then there will be a hill of 50 m.  The reason I have the hill as 50 m is because a hill has to be shorter than initial drop height because otherwise there won't be enough energy to go over the hill.  For example when I did an Initial Drop height of 5 m and had a hill height of 5 m it didn't go over the hill because it did not have enough energy.  For example when I had a drop height.  The amount of energy there is depends on how much PE and KE there is.  Because PE and KE added together equal the total amount of energy.  And the initial drop affects the amount of PE because the higher the drop height the larger amount of PE there is.  And the more PE there is at the top the more KE there is at the bottom of the drop because all the PE from the top transfers to KE.  This happens because the Law of Conservation of Energy which means that energy cannot be created or destroyed it can only be transferred.  So since the total amount of energy is the PE and KE combined the total energy never changes because the energy is only transferred.  For example when I had a drop height of 2.5 m the PE at the top of the drop was 1222 J and the KE was 0 J.  At the bottom of the drop the PE was 1 J and the KE was 1221 J and the total energy was 1222 J.  When I had a drop height of 5 m the PE at the top was 2443 J and the KE was 0 J.  Then at the bottom of the drop the PE was 1 J and the KE was 1442 J and the total energy was 1443 J.  Now for an example of why the hill height has to be shorter I will show you some more evidence.  When I had an initial drop height of 5 m and a hill 5 m the PE at the top of the initial drop was 2450 J and 0 J for KE.  But then at close to the top of the hill the PE was 2449 J and 1 J for KE and it didn't have enough energy to get back up the hill and over.  But when I had an initial drop height of 5 m and a hill height of 4 m it was able to go over the hill.  At the initial drop the PE was 2448 J and the KE was 0 J.  Then at the top of the hill the PE was 2450 J and the KE was 489 J and had enough energy to go over the hill.  This is why I have the hill height at 50 m, to make sure that the car will have enough energy to go over the hill and make it safely to the end.
All of this is why you should choose my design for an initial drop height of 60 m and a hill height of 50 m.  Thank you for your time.


