       When designing a fun roller coaster, there are many important factors to keep in mind including speed and height. But it is possible for a hill to be too high to climb and that some weights allow the car to move faster. Knowing the limits of what is possible in a roller coaster just involves knowing a few rules.
       One of the rules is that the taller the initial drop is, the more total energy the roller coaster cart has. According to the Initial Drop Data, the 2 meter drop had 782 total Joules while the 5 meter drop had 2443 total Joules. At the top of the hill, all of the Joules were PE. As it was going downhill, it started transferring to KE until it was only KE at the bottom. Furthermore, the 3 meter drop had exactly 391 more Joules than the 2 meter drop proving that higher hills have more energy which lets you get more velocity and faster speed.
       Another important rule to abide by is that any hill must be shorter than the previous hill's drop. With an initial drop of 3 meters, the car successfully climbed a 2.97 meter hill, but failed to climb the 3 meter hill because it had 0 KE before it reached the top. Likewise, the car didn't climb a 5 meter hill, but did climb a 2.5 meter hill. As long as the hill height is less than the drop height, it will have enough KE and the cart will be able to pass. 
       Lastly, the more mass a cart has, the more energy it has allowing for more speed. For example, the 40 kilogram cart had 1175 of PE Joules at the top of a 3 meter drop and 1175 Joules of KE at the bottom. The 60 kilogram cart had 1761 Joules on the same drop. The heavier carts will have more velocity going downhill allowing it to gain more speed and KE.
       All in all, to design a fun successful roller coaster, you just need speed and height. Heavier carts give you more speed and energy while slower carts do the opposite. And when adding hills, the hill just needs to be lower than the previous drop. The trick is balance. Once you figure out what works, everything blends together into a wonderful ride. 