Through lots of research, I have figured out the requirements and recommendations for the best roller coaster design so far. The amount of energy during the initial drop correlates with the height of it. If you want the car to have more KE at the bottom and more PE at the top, choose a high initial drop. If you want less KE at the bottom and less PE at the top, choose a lower initial drop. This is shown in my data. When the initial drop was 2 meters tall, the car only had 1071J of energy. When the initial drop was 5 meters tall, the car had 2688J of energy. I recommend a higher initial drop to thrill the riders with more speed. A higher initial drop allows the cart to build up more speed and allows you to have higher hills.

 If you want a hill, it needs to be lower than the initial drop. The car needs enough KE to go over the hill. If the hill is the same height or taller than the initial drop, the car won't have enough KE to make it over.  All of the KE will transfer into PE before the car makes it over and the cart will lose it's speed. This is shown in my data. When I did an initial height of 5 meters and a hill height of 5 meters, the cart did not make it over. When i did a hill height of 4 meters and an initial drop of 5 meters, the car made it to the end. Keep in mind that the total amount of energy never changes. Total energy is the amount of PE + KE on any point of the coaster. Energy cannot be created or destroyed. When the car is going up, it's losing KE and speed but gaining PE. When the car is going down, it's gaining KE and speed but losing PE. I recommend a hill slightly lower than the initial drop so the riders can experience two high drops. 

You should also think about the mass of the car. The mass of the car effects the amount of energy and the speed. If you want more energy and more speed, you should have a car with a higher mass. If you want less energy and less speed, you should have a cart with less mass. Examples of this are shown in my data. When I did a car mass of 40kg, the car had a total energy of 1957J of energy and went a decent speed. When I did a car mass of 60kg, the car had a total energy of 2936J of energy and went much faster. I also observed that the car with a higher mass lost speed faster when going up. This is because gravity has more of an effect on the heavier object.