Dear Gonzales Family, Me and my researchers have found the most efficient way to build a roller coaster that is safe and cool for everyone. First, let me show you the physics. You must keep in mind that the Initial Drop height must be bigger than the hill height. If it is not bigger than the Total Energy you have going down the drop wont be enough to get you up and over the hill, aswell as the amount of mass the cart has. If  the cart doesnt have a lot of mass then the PE and KE will be smaller, but if you were to use a cart with a lot of mass then the PE and KE would be increased but harder to move. When it is going though the cart will also be hard to stop with a lot of mass. I would definitaly go with a higher drop height like 4.5 Meters because with a higher height of the initail drop the PE at the top will be higher and the KE going down the drop will also be higher. Therefore making the ride more enjoyable and more thrilling. We want as most PE as we can get that is safe because it makes the ride better by transfering over into KE, making the ride have more motion. Adding both of those energys together make the Total Energy high. When the cart starts on top of the drop it has PE and when it is in motion moving down that drop the PE transfered into KE. Then once at the bottom of the drop and the bottom/beggining of the hill the car has PE and KE because it hasnt fully transfered to stop moving. When going up the hill it remains with PE and KE. Then the system repeats with it being at the top of the hill and having all PE and no KE. PE and KE transfer from one to another and therefore causing the car to move and to be ready to move. When the car is on top of the initail drop not in motion it has all KE then once the car is released now moving down the hill all that PE is transfered into KE because it is in motion. The Total Energy of the ride always stays the same so when you get your energy at the begining you will have the same at the end. The Total Energy is the KE and PE is the energy put together. Some of the KE and PE goes into Thermal Energy which takes away from the Total Energy.