The drop height for my roller coaster is going to be 5 meters. This is because we want the most PE at the top of the drop as well as the most KE at the bottom of the drop. The more energy, the faster and more exciting the roller coaster will be. For example height and PE have a direct relationship I know this becasue when I did my test and tested 2 meters the PE was 880 joules but when I tested 5 meters, the car had 2199 joules of PE. So when the the height is increased so does the energy and we want the maximum energy so we also want the maximum height. PE is the kind of energy it will have at the top of any part of the ride when the car is completely still but still has more movement left to come. KE is movement energy so we will  have KE in our model once the car has started to go down the hill and it will keep increasing until it stops moving at the bottom of the hill. The TE will always be the same as whatever you start with no matter if you start will PE or KE becasue the energy has no where to go so the TE will remain the same. For example in my data at the 2 meter drop the PE at the beginning was 880 and it stayed that way all the way through the ride. As you go down the drop the PE drops and then the KE rises because you being move. Another example is when I had a 5 meter drop the PE at the top was 2199 but at the bottom is was zero, and at the top the KE was zero but at the bottom the PE was zero. Also the Law of Conservation of energy states that energy cannot being created or detroyed. So when the PE goes from a high number to zero the energy doesnt go away instead it is just transferred into a new type of energy. Most often being transferred into KE this is why the TE will stay the becasue the energy does go away and KE doesnt just appear. They just transfer back and forth until they go to something else like thermal energy. Also when you are deciding you hill height you need to make sure that it isnt greater than your drop height or the car will not make it up. You keep the same amount of energy the whole time so as long as you make the hill smaller the car will have enough energy to get up that hill. Another example of this is when I had a 5 meter initial drop and a 5 meter hill the car could not make it over the hill because it did not have enough energy from the top of the initial drop. Next the relationship between mass and energy is also direct the more mass you have the more energy you will have too. When I had a car mass of 40kg the PE at the top of the drop was only 1958 but when we bumped up the mass to 60kgs the PE went up to 2936. This shows that if you increase one the other also increases. I understand that in the real world we do have friction but for my data and explanations it was taken place in a frictionless world. 