The drop height of my roller coaster design is 4 meters. This is because the energy is dependent on the height. The more height, the more energy. In my Initial Drop Data, I noticed that when I increased the height, the energy increased with it. For example, when I tested the drop height of 2 meters, the PE was 883 Joules. When I increased the drop height to 3 meters, the PE increased to 1319 Joules. The height of the drop also relates to KE at the bottom, assuming there is no friction, the KE at the bottom will be the same as the PE at the top. Back when I tested the drop height of 2 meters, the PE was 883 Joules at the drop, and the KE was 883 Joules at the bottom of the drop. 
Adding on to this, PE, KE, and TE are all related. For example, when I tested the drop height of 4 meters, PE was 1759 Joules, the KE was 1759 Joules at the bottom, and the TE was 1759 Joules. This shows that PE and KE always add up to equal the total energy.
Furthermore, PE and KE going down the drop won't be equal, but they do always add up to the total energy. For example, if the total energy was 200, and the PE was 150 going down the drop, and KE was 50. We can conclude from the previous sentence that PE and KE change going down the drop, but always add up to equal the total energy. 
The change in the KE, and PE, along with TE, all relate the Law of Conservation of Energy. This law states that energy can't be created or destroyed. What I saw in my data, was the total energy never went up or down. This is because energy wasn't created during the trial, but it also wasn't destroyed. 
This is all related to the drop height and hill height. If you have a drop height of 4 meters, and a hill height of 5 meters, it is most likely that your car will not make it up the hill height. This is because the initial drop height's stored energy, is all the energy there is. If you have a hill height that supports more energy than there is, then there won't be enough energy to make it up the hill. 
Lastly, mass, PE, and KE are all related. The more mass there is, the more stored energy, and KE there will be. For example, in my trial where my mass was 40 kg, the PE was 1565 Joules, and my KE was 1565 Joules too. But in my trial where my mass was 50 kg, the PE was 1956 Joules, and my KE was 1956 Joules too. This shows that if the mass is greater, then the PE, and KE are also greater. This is an example of a direct relationship between mass, PE, and KE.