           First of all, we're going to talk about the height of the drop and how it affects the types of energy. The height of the drop should be as tall as you can make it because that will improve the speed of the ride and how long it can last. For example, a trial with a drop height of 5 meters had 2440 joules of PE at the top of the ride and 2439 joules of KE at the bottom. Then in a trial with a drop height of 2 meters had 976 joules of PE at the top and 975 joules of KE at the bottom. This helps prove that a higher drop height will be beneficial because the higher the drop the more total energy. With more total energy the roller coaster can go faster and have a longer track. 

       Secondly, we're going to talk about the relationship between PE, KE, and the total energy throughout the track. At the start of the ride, the PE is at a certain amount and the total energy is the same at that time. This is because PE + KE = TE and from a trial with a release height of 5 meters the starting PE was 2440 joules and 0 joules KE. Then at the end of the ride the total energy was the same. 

      Next were going to talk about the changes in PE and KE going down the drop and how that will affect the roller coaster. As the roller coaster goes down the track its PE from the initial drop starts turning into KE. We know this because PE is stored energy and KE is the result of motion. So in the coaster, we need to make sure that enough PE is stored to turn into KE and get through the track. 

      Now we're going to talk about energy transformation & the Law of Conservation of Energy. First, the Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy can not be destroyed or created but can only be transferred. This applies to the roller coaster because it's a closed system so no energy can be added nor destroyed from the coaster only transferred. The energy will be transferred into PE, KE, Thermal Energy, and other types of energy in the coaster. So while making the coaster you need to make sure that enough potential and kinetic energy is available and not all transferred into thermal energy. 

    In addition, we're going to be deciding the height of the hill and the relationship it has with the initial drop height. The hill we put in the coaster has to be slightly less than the height of the initial drop. For example in a trial where the hill height was 4 m and the initial drop height was 4 m the cart didn't get over the hill. This makes sense due to the Law of Conservation of Energy because if it didn't start with enough energy it wouldn't make enough to get over the hill. But when the hill height was 3 m and the drop height was 4 m the cart did go over the hill. So from this, we know that the height of the hill needs to be smaller than the initial drop height or it won't work.  

     Finally, we're going to talk about the relationship between mass, PE, and KE. In your coaster, the mass of the cart should be the heaviest it should be because it will make the cart have more force. For example in a trial where the cart mass was 60 kg the total energy was 2933 joules. Then when the cart mass was 40 kgs the total energy was 1955 joules. So from this, we know that making a larger cart would make the roller coaster faster and more fun. 



