I would recommend to the Gonzales family that the height of the initial drop be as tall as possible. I recommend this because the higher the initial drop is, the more potential energy the roller coaster car will have. For example, when the initial drop height was at 2 meters, the roller coaster car only had 977 Joules of potential energy. Although, when the roller coaster car was at 5 meters for the initial drop, the roller coaster car had 2443 Joules of potential energy. I recommend the roller coaster car have as much potential energy as possible because the potential energy is going to transfer into kinetic energy throughout the ride. The kinetic energy will be the motion of the roller coaster through the ride, and that is why we want as much of it as possible. The total energy will stay the same throughout the ride which is also why we want more height. The potential energy at the top will start out very high, while the kinetic energy will be at zero. Then as the ride goes down, the potential energy will transfer into kinetic energy. The potential energy and kinetic energy will always add up to total energy. When the potential energy goes up, the kinetic energy will go down. Therefore, when the roller coaster car goes down the drop, the kinetic energy will go up. Also, the Law of Conservation of Energy says that energy can not be created nor destroyed, so that means that none of the energy will be changed throughout the ride. The potential energy at the beginning will be how much kinetic energy the roller coaster car ends up with. However if there is friction, the potential energy might not totally be transferred into kinetic energy, but thermal energy instead. 
Another recommendation I have is that the kill height be slightly less than the initial drop height. If the hill height has more or is the same height of the initial drop then the roller coaster car will not make it over the hill. When the roller coaster car goes back up the hill after the initial drop, the kinetic energy will transfer back into potential energy and it won't make it up. The car will be gaining height and the gravity will be pulling down the car. Therefore the gravity that is pulling the car down times the height will be stronger than the kinetic energy forcing the car up. For example, when the hill height was only slightly shorter than the initial drop height, the roller coaster car still made it over. 
I also recommend that the roller coaster car be as massive as possible. I recommend this because mass and potential energy have a direct relationship. That's because the equation includes gravity times mass along with height. The gravity pulling down the car for this initial drop will be amplified if the car has more mass. The kinetic energy is similar, the more mass the car has, the more kinetic energy. Some evidence is that when the roller coaster car had 40 kg, the total energy was only 1567. When the roller coaster car had 60 kg, the total energy was 2351.