From my data analysis, I conclude for the Gonzales family that it would be in their best interest to create a large initial drop. the relationship between height and PE is needed because of the amount of PE you get as the height of the ride increases. In my data, the potential energy goes up when the height goes up if all the other variables are the same. I recommend this because my research shows that the initial drop needs to be the biggest in order to allow the cart to travel through the rest of the ride. This is because the potential energy of the cart at the initial drop changes into kinetic energy as the ride starts. my data shows that the drop has to be under the height of the initial drop for the cart to get over the top of the hill. for example, trial one of "adding a hill" shows that my initial drop was 4 and the hill was also 4. The cart didn't make it over the top of the hill because there was an even amount of energy instead of the initial drop being larger. Energy also gets transferred to heat energy if you are in a friction environment. In a closed system, energy is never lost, just transferred. this means that the total amount of PE and KE will add up to your total energy. the law of conservation of energy states that energy can not be created nor destroyed, just change form. this shows that energy can be transferred between PE and KE and heat energy depending on the friction. in my data, it shows that the PE at the start of the ride gets transferred to KE during and towards the end of the ride, fully. Another recommendation I would make for the Gonzales family is to make the cart heavier. this will give the cart more PE and the start of the drop to make it go faster, and more enjoyable. the more energy something poses, the faster, and more fun it will be. for example, my data shows that when the mass of the car was at 40, it had a PE of 1564 compared to when the cart's mass was at 58, the PE was 2112. in conclusion, the heavier the cart and the taller the initial drop, the more energy your cart will have.