First, I would recommend that the roller coaster car begins at an initial drop height of 5 meters off the ground. I believe that this is the best height for the initial drop because we learned that height and energy have a direct relationship so the greater the height of the initial drop, the greater the potential energy. For example, in my trials when I tested an initial drop height of 4 meters, I found that the PE at the top of the drop was 1955 joules and the KE at the bottom was 1954 joules. Then when I tested an initial drop height of 5 meters, I found that the PE at the top of the drop was 2443 joules and the KE at the bottom was 2442 joules. This shows that the greater the height of the initial drop, the greater the PE at the top of the drop, the KE at the bottom, and the TE. 

Also, I would recommend a hill height of 3.5 meters off the ground. I believe that this is the best hill height because, in my trials, I learned that the height of the hill must be less than the height of the initial drop in order for the roller coaster car to make it over the hill. In my trials, when I tested a hill height of 3.5 meters with an initial drop height of 5 meters, I found that the PE at the top of the hill was 1718 joules and the KE at the top of the hill was 729 joules. This data shows that the car has enough energy to make it up and over the hill and will make it to the end of the ride. This is the best hill height because it guarantees that the car will get over the hill safely while still being high enough to be exciting for the riders. 

Lastly, I believe that the mass of the roller coaster car should be 60 kg. I believe that this is the best mass because mass and energy also have a direct relationship so the more mass the car has the greater the PE, KE, and TE. In my trials, I tested a car mass of 50 and found the PE at the top of the drop was 2446 joules and the KE at the bottom was 2443 joules. Then when I tested a car mass of 60 kg, I found that the PE at the top of the drop was 2936 joules and the KE at the bottom was 2932 joules. 

All of these trials were tested on a frictionless track. However, since there is friction in the real world you would need to adjust the heights of the initial drop and hill to make sure the car would make it to the end of the ride with friction. In an environment with friction, some of the energy will be converted into thermal energy, slowing the car down. Since the Law of Conservation of Mass says that energy can't be created or destroyed, some of the PE and KE will be converted into thermal energy during the ride. This means that there will be less and less PE and KE as the ride goes on. But the TE will still remain the same throughout the ride. Since energy can't be created or destroyed, as the car goes down the tracks, energy is converted from PE to KE and back again but the total energy always stays the same.