The Gonzales Family should use our designs because we have been studying about where the potential and kinetic energy goes in a roller coaster and how the energy is used. First you need an initial drop at the beginning of the coaster so there is enough energy to make it to the end. You would want the initial drop to be high because that is where all of the potential energy comes from and is used throughout the ride. When the car goes down it is transferring all of the potential energy into kinetic energy, and when the car goes back up then the kinetic energy is transformed into potential energy.That is continuous until the roller coaster comes to a stop. Energy can't be created or destroyed so that is why it is being transferred from potential to kinetic.  I would suggest having your initial drop be 5 meters tall. The total energy of the roller coaster will always stay the same and the potential and kinetic energy should always add up to the total energy. 

If the Gonzales Family wants hills in the design then they have to be sure to always make the initial drop higher than the hills height. If they don't do this then the car won't have enough energy to make it over the hill and the car will just fall back losing all of it's kinetic and potential energy. Sense the initial height is 5 meters tall then the hill height has to be shorter than that, I would suggest your hill height being 4.3 meters tall. It is shorter than the initial drop so the car can get over it but it's still tall enough to get through the rest of the coaster. 

The cars mass is important because if there is more mass then there would also be more total energy. The mass is related to potential and kinetic energy because it is a direct relationship meaning if one changes then so does the other one. This is because if the cars mass is heavier then it will go faster at the bottom and if it is lighter then it will go slower at the bottom/ harder to stop. Example: 40 (kg) --> 1665(J), 60 (kg)--> 2497 (J). These examples show that id the car is heavier than it will have more total energy. The weight of the car should be 60 (kg) so the roller coaster is faster/ has more energy and so it has a higher chance of making it to the end of the roller coaster.