
TE PE and Height  
Dear, Gonzales family 
It has been our utmost pleasure to tell you the most recent and prominent roller coaster design has nearly tackled and exceeded every basic roller coaster criterion. We have gone so far as to have an initial drop and a hill ready for families to ride safely. We recognized your request asking for a hill so giant it would tower our initial drop. This request was impossible because the relationship between the hill and the drop will always need to have the drop be higher than the hill. We ran into this mistake during a simulation we placed a hill higher than the drop, the cart simply failed to climb the hill due to a lack of kinetic energy required and making the experience underwhelming and dull. We overcame this by setting the drop height from 2.00 meters to 4.00 and the hill from 2.00 to 3.00 so the roller coaster experience would still improve while maintaining standard efficiency. We have also reviewed very important parts of roller coaster science such as what is PE and KE, the relationship between PE and KE, TE, and mass and height. All of our staff could use this valuable relearned information to overcome problems while designing the coaster and have made them write a short passage explaining the PE and KE relationship to prove we know what we're doing. "KE stands for Kinetic energy a type of energy that can be considered a measurement of force in joules it can also be found in its own equation KE= MassX0.5 X M/S"- Sarah a worker."PE stands for potential energy. PE also has its equation PE=9.8 (gravity)X Mass X Height and it is stored energy that can build up until a reaction or motion is set in an object ."The law of conservation energy states: energy can not be created or destroyed. The energy gets turned into a new type of energy. When an object sets into motion the PE turns into KE and the KE also gets transferred into other energies like thermal energy. The process will continue until the object is motionless and can't move so it would have no PE to continue transferring"- wrote our worker Mike. "TE is the combination of PE and KE. In our simulation when we first added friction found Total energy of 2320 joules however we had 1-joule thermal energy of 1234 joules of KE and 1176 joules of PE. There was if you couldn't tell there was one less joule in the TE because it didn't count in the thermal energy TE is only the combination of PE and KE" - Josh another worker. With that Gonzales, we are proud to present to you the brains of our staff and our lovely roller coaster design we think will fit in between the balance of making you money while being safe a true win-win for everybody.