Hello Gonzales family 
I have some ideas for roller coasters that I think you will like, they will be fun, entertaining and safe. 
I have decided that the height of the drop will be at 5 meters. I have decided on this height because the trials I have ran, the trials have made me beleve that with this height I will be able to get the most potential energy out of my car. The potential energy of the car at this height will be 2,447 j. This means that the coaster will be able to have the most amount of KE at the bottom so it will be able to make it through all the twists and turns. The reason the car will get more KE is because of the relationship between KE and PE. The relationship between KE and PE is that when the car has more PE it will have more KE. This is due to how PE is stored energy so then as the car gose down the hill the PE will be able to be converted to KE. The reason the PE will be converted to KE is because of energy transformation. Energy transformation happens because of the law of concervation of energy this states that energy cant be created or distroyed. So due to this the I cant have 500 J of PE and end with 300 J of PE but have 300 J of KE. This means that I was able to gain KE with out lossing the proper amount of PE. This will make it so that when it comes to calculating the KE that the more speed than the more KE due to them having a direct relationship. I have seen that with having the height at 5 meters it will make the car have a KE of 2446 j at the end. The reason for that is when the car has more PE that it will also have more KE. The PE is just stored energy so then when the car starts to go down the hill it will covert the PE to KE. This is also at play because of the total energy because when the car is going down the hill the PE will lower but the KE will rise. The car will always have the same total energy so we wont be losing any energy it will just be moving from KE to PE. The next part of the coaster is that we need to think about the height of the hill I have decided that 4.75 meters will be the best height for the hill because if we are to make it any talled the car will not make it over. I think we should have the mass of the car be 60 kg because with the car at that mass it will make it so it has more PE to start with and more KE to end with.