     The recommendations I would make for the Gonzales family are to have lots of height to the initial drop, have a hill with less height compared to the initial drop, and have the car mass be heavy. 

    Initial drop, from my data, when I had my initial drop at 2 which is the lowest it can go the potential energy at the top of the hill was 979J. The kinetic energy was 0J. Once the cart dropped and reached the end the potential energy was 0J and the kinetic energy was 979J. This is telling me that when the cart is not in motion there is more potential energy. When the cart is in motion there is more kinetic energy, so there is a transfer of energy once the cart moves. This brings me back to having a very tall initial drop because you can start off with the obvious you want it to be fun!. But there is another reason for having a big initial drop will cause more kinetic and potential energy to form causing the cart to move for a longer period of time. 

   The hill, hill should be lower in height compared to the initial drop. If the hill is taller than the initial drop the cart will not make it over which would not make a fun ride. From one of my classmate's data, they had an initial drop of 4m and a hill of 4m and when they dropped the cart it did not make it over the hill but when my classmate changed the hill height to 3.99m the cart made it over the hill and finished at the end.

    The mass, when the cart has more mass there is more potential and kinetic energy. From my data I made the mass of the cart 40kg and the potential energy was 1759J and when I made the cart's mass 60kg the potential energy was 2639J. By having more potential and kinetic energy the ride would be longer ad more fun so that is why you want more mass. 

    In the conservation of mass, when you add friction the energy is never destroyed it is moved to thermal energy. In my data, it says when there was no gravity the potential energy was 2447J and my kinetic energy was 2445J once I added friction the potential energy was 2440J and the kinetic energy was 2439J. 

     Potential and Kinetic energy, potential energy is when energy is stored in an object and potential energy is always there when the object is at rest. Once the object moves the potential energy slowly turns into kinetic energy, kinetic energy is when an object is in motion. The total energy is the combination of kinetic and potential energy by adding them. 

    From everything I have stated it would make a very safe and fun rollercoaster that will really help the Gonzalas family get more customers.