The initial drop of the roller coaster will be 5 m. The reasoning behind this choice is because the higher the drop the higher the Potential energy of cart which would in turn make more kinetic energy at the bottom of coaster. Why potential and kinetic energy are so important it makes not only the coaster fun but function. Potential energy can be defined as the energy stored in an object which transforms into kinetic energy when in motion. Total energy is the amount of energy stored or expelled in the object. The relationship of these being one cannot exist without the other as they are dependent on one another. As mentioned the potential energy converts into kinetic on its way down the coaster this is the motion of the object. Getting into why this is important in a roller coaster is because fun is speed that is important. In my data that i collected comparing a 2m drop to a 3m drop shows higher potential energy at the top of the coaster. 2m had a potential energy of 1173 joules and 3m had a drop of 1759 joules. Potential energy is the foundation of the fun and speed of a coaster and that's why the higher the better and why my team is having a 5m drop. Its good to mention that energy cannot be created nor destroyed which is the law of conservation of energy. Then how does potential turn into kinetic its because it transforms into the other.  The hill height is also important as its height is greatly dependent on the drops. as you cannot have a hill greater than the drop or it will not make it up as there will not be enough energy to make it up the hill. That's why i'm choosing a 3.5m hill to have a balance of speed and fun to mix the the actual ability of the coaster. comparing hill heights the cart actually had 590 more joules of potential energy when it was a 4m hill than a 5m one. Lastly the carts mass is important for a fun coaster just like the higher the drop the larger the potential energy the larger the mass the more potential energy and of course then in turn kinetic energy make it a faster and fun coaster.