To create the best roller coaster design you will need to follow some rules to make sure that your ride is safe and makes it to the end. For the most fun roller coaster your will want your initial drop to be as high as possible. The higher the initial drop is the more potential energy there will be at the top of the initial drop. When the initial drop height was set as higher in testing the PE was higher. For example when the release height was 5 meters the PE at the top of the initial drop was 2928 joules. However when the release was set at only 2 meters the PE at the top of the initial drop was 1171 joules. The KE at the initial drop will always be zero. The PE at the top of the initial drop is always equal to the total energy. We know this because if the KE at the top of the initial drop is always zero. The Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed but only transferred between energy. Meaning that if our KE is zero at the beginning of the roller coaster and because energy is on transferred the TE is equal to the PE at the top of the initial drop. In a closed system the TE is always going to be the same. As the cart begins the initial drop PE transfers over to KE. For example with a release height of 4 meter the KE at the top of the initial drop was zero but the KE at the bottom of the initial drop was 2341 joules. Similar to how the PE at the top of the initial drop was 2342 joules but at the bottom of the initial drop the PE was 1 joule. This shows how energy was transferred throughout the in initial drop. However, when there is a hill the KE gets transferred back into PE. This energy transfer continues throughout the whole ride until the ride is over. For example, when there is a hill height of 3 meters and an initial drop height of 5 meters the PE at the top of the initial drop is 2349 joules this energy is then being transferred throughout the ride. At the top of the hill the PE is 1768 joules and the KE at the top of the hill is 580 joules. The height of the hill should be tall so that the roller coaster is more fun. However, the height of the hill cannot be higher than the initial drop. We know this because when the initial drop was set at 4 meters and the hill height was also set at 5 meters the car did not make it over the hill. Yet when the initial drop was still set at 4 meters and the height of the hill was 3 meters the car did make it over the hill. To create a more fast and fun ride the mass of the car need to be as high as possible. We tested different car masses in relationship to PE and KE. When the car mass was set at 60 kilograms the PE at the top of the initial drop was 2348 joules and the KE at the bottom of drop was 2343 joules. When the car had a mass of 40 kilograms the PE at the top was lower with 1565 joules. The KE was also lower with 1562. This tells us that we need a car with a higher mass for a more fun ride. If all of these rules are followed then the roller coaster will be the very fun and still make it to the end of the ride.