I would tell the Gonzales family that our roller coaster would make it to the end of the ride. Because our initial drop will always be higher than any hill or loop that we decide to put in our roller coaster. From the data that I have collected with my initial drop. There is always a big amount of potential energy at the beginning of the drop. And none at the bottom because potential energy is stored energy. There is a lot at the top because the car hasn't taken off yet and it is just sitting there. And not going anywhere. But the higher the hill there will always be more potential energy. At the initial drop, there is no kinetic energy. You gain kinetic energy by something moving and since the car is just sitting at the top of the roller coaster the car has not gained any acceleration. But at the bottom of the ride, the car has gone down hills and through loops which made the car gain kinetic energy throughout the ride. The higher the hill the bigger the initial drop is going to be just like the height of the hill and potential energy. 

At the top of the initial drop, the potential energy is always the same as the total energy. At the bottom of the ride, the kinetic energy is always the same as the total energy. That is because when going through the ride the potential energy changes into kinetic energy. Which then equals the total energy at the end of the ride. The total energy stays the same throughout the whole ride because the energy just transfers into a different place. 

At the top of the potential energy is sitting at the top of the ride and the kinetic energy is zero. As you start going down the ride the potential energy starts to transfer over to kinetic energy and that is the relationship. Since the potential energy is converted over to kinetic energy in a frictionless environment. Because the conservation of energy can't be destroyed only converted. 

When a car has more mass it has more potential energy and less kinetic energy because it is more mass sitting at the top of the initial drop. Therefore it won't have as much kinetic energy going throughout the ride because it is a heavier car. When there is less mass there is less potential energy and more kinetic energy because since there is not as much mass, the car can go faster through the ride. 