The drop height of my roller coaster design is 5 meters. This is because according to the data when we increased the drop height the PE went up at the initial drop. For example we started at a drop height of 2 meters and the PE is 977 joules. When we increased the height of the drop to 3 meters the PE was 1466 joules. Also the KE at the bottom of the hill will be larger when you increase the drop height. On top of that the total energy will increase with the drop height increasing since total energy and PE have a direct relationship. This will help ensure that the coaster doesn't get stuck when it is going up a hill or through a loop.  

The hill height for my roller coaster design is 3 meters. This is because with the initial drop at 5 meters if we make the hill too high the cart won't make it up the hill. We can say this because our data proves that it won't make it up the hill height that is 5 meters tall. for example our data shows that when the hill is 3 meters the cart will make it up the hill with an initial drop height of 5 meters. When we move the hill height to 5 meters the cart doesn't make it up the hill. So we can infer that the hill has to be a smaller height than your initial drop. This is because when the energy transfers from PE to KE it won't be enough to get up the hill. The total energy is always the same as the PE at the top of the initial drop. The KE is different at the top of the hill. For example in our data when the hill height was 5m the PE at the top of the hill was 2449j but then when the cart gets to the top of the hill not all the KE transfers into PE. In our data the PE at the top of the hill is 980j and the KE at the top of the KE is 1463j. This is because when the cart goes down the hill the PE transfers into the Ke. Since energy can't be created nor destroyed there is still some PE when it goes up the hill. 

The mass of the car affects the energy when going through the roller coaster because the larger the mass the more energy the cart will have. So this means that if you want the roller coaster to go faster you should make the mass of the cart larger. For example in our data when the mass was 40kg the total energy was 1955j but when we had a mass of 60kg the total energy was 2933. 