I believe our rollercoaster should start at a height of 5 meters. I know this will be the best option because the higher the initial drop the more potential energy the cart will have. I know this because, at the top of the initial drop height of 2 meters, the potential energy was 1173 Joules. In contrast, when the height of the initial drop was 5 meters the cart had 2933 Joules of potential energy. This shows that the higher an object is the more potential energy it has. Another reason I know potential energy is based on height is because potential energy is energy stored based on the position of an object meaning the higher the object is the higher the potential energy. The same goes for when the object is lower to the ground it will have a lower amount of potential energy. This also means there will be more kinetic energy at the bottom of the hill, this is because as the cart moves further down the initial drop all the potential energy will end up converting to kinetic energy.

I also think our rollercoaster hill should be slightly shorter than the initial drop. I think this because when the car reaches the top of the hill, as long as the hill is shorter than the initial drop the Potential energy will be lower than when it was on the initial drop. There is enough energy for the cart to reach the other side of the hill. I know this because in trial number three the initial drop had a height of four meters and the hill had a height of two meters. Due to this, the potential energy at the top of the initial drop was 2348 Joules and the potential energy at the top of the hill was 1179 joules. This is explained by The Law of Conservation of Energy. The law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed meaning, the amount of total energy will stay the same. This is seen in my roller coaster trials when the cart moved down the initial drop the amount of potential energy was decreasing while the kinetic energy was increasing at the same rate, therefore the total energy stayed the same. 

Lastly, I would recommend having the cart have a mass of 60 kilograms. This is because in my trials I've found that the more mass the more potential energy at the top of the hill, the more kinetic energy at the bottom of the hill, and the more total energy. I know this because in trial number one the mass of the car was 40 kilograms and the total energy was 1956 Joules but in trial two the mass of the car was 45 kilograms and the total energy was 2194 Joules. Therefore the more mass the more total energy.

