Dear Gonzales family, 
If you are looking for some roller coaster design suggestions I got some. Firstly you want to make sure that the initial drop on the roller coaster is higher than all of the hills on the track. If you have a higher initial drop you will have more potential energy and eventually kinetic energy. My data showed when the initial drop was 2 meters the PE was 1026 Joules and when the height was 5 meters the energy was 2928 Joules. The law of conservation of energy states that energy is not destroyed it is transferred. This happens because PE and height have a direct relationship. In simple terms an object with a higher height has to go farther when dropped than a object with a shorter drop height. With a higher drop height you need more energy to get down so you need more PE at the top.  Also, if the track is friction less the total energy will not change. When the height of the track was 2 meters, the PE at the top was 1026 J, which was also the total energy because the car was not moving so it had 0 KE. As the car goes down the track the TE does not get larger or smaller it stays the same and the energy is transferring. Before the initial drop the car has PE and as the car goes down the track it loses PE and transfers to KE. Also, if there is friction the energy still transfers like usual but some of the energy transfers to thermal energy.   KE is energy in motion so and PE is stored energy so as the car goes down the energy becomes in motion and at the end of the track all of the energy is KE. For example when the initial drop was 2 meters, the KE at the end of the track was 1026 J and the PE was 0 J. Going back to the idea that the initial drop must be higher than all of the hills, if the hill is the same height or a bigger height the car will not have not energy to get over the hills. For example when the ID was 4 meters and the hill height was 2 meters the car had enough energy to get over the hill. But when the ID was still 4 meters and the hill height was 5 meters the car did not have enough energy to get over the hill. This shows that when the hill height is the same or larger than the initial drop the car will not have enough energy to get over the hill. This happens because the car starts with a certain amount of PE related to the height. So when a hill is taller than the initial drop the car simply didn't have enough PE to get over the hill.  Lastly, if the mass is higher there will be more total energy in the system of the roller coaster. In my data when the mass was 40 kg the TE was 1958 J, but when the mass was 60 kg the total energy was 2936 J.


Sincerely, 

