The higher the initial drop, the higher the amount of potential energy. When there is more potential energy at the top, there is more kinetic energy at the bottom. This is shown in the initial drop data. The lowest initial drop height of 2.25 meters produced the lowest amount of potential energy I had in my trials, which was 1189 Joules. This drop height also produced the least amount of kinetic energy at the bottom, which was 1188 Joules. On the other hand, the trial with the highest initial drop of 5 meters had the highest amount of potential energy, which was 2641 Joules. This trial also had the greatest amount of kinetic energy at the bottom, which was 2640 Joules. This data proves that the higher the initial drop, the more potential energy at the top, and the more kinetic energy at the bottom.

When there is no friction, the potential energy and kinetic energy always add up to the total energy. The total energy always stays the same. In one of my trials, at the top of the drop, the potential energy was 1585 Joules and the kinetic energy was 0 Joules. The total energy was 1585, which was the sum of the potential energy and the kinetic energy. At the bottom of the drop, the potential energy was 1 Joule, and the kinetic energy was 1584 Joules. Even though the potential energy and kinetic energy changed, the total energy stayed the same. This shows that the potential and kinetic energy always add up to the total energy which doesn't change, if there is no friction.

When the car is at the top of the initial drop, all the energy is potential. As the car starts to go down the drop, the potential energy starts to turn into kinetic energy. At the bottom of the hill, almost all of the energy has become kinetic energy. My data from the initial drop can prove that. In one of my trials, at the top of the hill, the potential energy was 1981 Joules and the kinetic energy was 0 Joules. Once the car reached the bottom, the potential energy was 1 Joule and the kinetic energy was 1980 Joules. This shows how the energy changes forms from potential energy to kinetic energy as the car goes down the drop. 

The Law of Conservation of Energy states that in a closed system, no energy can be created or destroyed, and the total energy stays the same. However, the energy can change forms. This can be shown by using some data from one of my initial drop trials. In one of the trials, the potential energy at the top of the drop was 1981 Joules and the kinetic energy was 0 Joules. At the bottom, the potential energy was 1 Joule and the kinetic energy was 1980 Joules. The total energy stayed the same through the trials even though the amounts of kinetic and potential energy changed. This proves the Law of Conservation of Energy.

For the roller coaster to get to the end, the hills must be lower than the initial drop. In my trials, we changed the hill height and controlled the other variable. The initial drop was 4 meters, and the car got over the hills that were less than 4 meters. However, the car did not go over the hill that was 4 meters, or the same height as the initial drop. The car also didn't get over the hill that was 5 meters, which is greater than the initial drop. This data shows that the hills must be lower than the initial drop, otherwise the roller coaster car will not make it to the end of the ride. 

The greater the mass of the car, the greater amount of potential energy there is at the top and kinetic energy at the bottom. In the trials where we just changed the mass, the smallest car mass had the lowest amounts of potential energy at the top and kinetic energy at the bottom. The largest car mass resulted in the largest amounts of potential energy at the top and kinetic energy at the bottom. This shows that the greater the mass, the greater the potential and kinetic energy, as well as the total energy. 