Dear Gonzales family,

          It has come to my attention that you need help with a rollercoaster, and I have a design that might be able to help. Before I give you the design I am going to share why I think this is a good design using the science behind it.

          The first reason is that the higher the initial drop, the more potential energy there will be in the beginning. This will cause there to be more kinetic energy which gives the effect of falling from a high place causing the human body to send lots of adrenaline through your body which makes it so people have a good time. Once the initial drop is at a good height then it is on to understand how to go from potential energy to kinetic energy. The Law of Conservation of Energy states "Energy can't be created or destroyed." this means that while it may seem like all of the potential energy is being destroyed and a bunch of kinetic energy takes its place, that is not what is happening. The thing that is actually happening is as the cart begins to move all of the potential energy is converted into kinetic energy. This happens because potential energy is energy that is in an object that is not on the ground but is also not moving. Kinetic energy is the energy in a moving object. We need to know all of this so you understand that once the cart begins to move that potential energy is no longer in an object that is still. It is in an object that is moving which makes it have to become kinetic energy.
          The total energy is determined by the sum of the total amount of KE and the total amount of PE, if there is friction you also need to add the total amount of thermal energy. If the hill is taller than the initial drop then it will get stuck. The kart will get stuck because by the time it begins to go up the hill all of the KE that was made from the PE while going down the initial drop would be turned back into PE due to gravity. The height of an object increases the amount of PE an object has because gravity tries pulling that object down to the ground but can't. The reason gravity can't pull the kart down to Earth is because of the track, the track is stoping gravity from pulling the kart down to Earth.

                         -Alex Lautz