Hello, Gonzales Family

In the trials that I have run so far, I have noticed that the higher the initial drop is, the more potential energy occurs. The higher the initial drop the more potential energy at the top of the drop. We can see this because, in the data points that I have gathered, the potential energy at the top of a 2.5-meter drop was 1222 joules of potential energy. If we take a look at another data point, a drop of 3.75 with the same track and car had a potential energy of 1832. If we compare these points the higher initial drop also has a higher potential energy. After the coaster car has been released from the top of the drop, the car gains more and more kinetic energy while it loses potential energy. As I can see in some of the trial runs I made,  there is no energy that gets destroyed or created due to the law of energy. The energy does get transferred though. At the top of the hill, the energy is all potential energy, but by the bottom of the hill there is no more potential energy and it has all transferred to kinetic energy. The total energy is the amount of energy in a given time if you add up the potential and kinetic energy. In a frictionless environment, I could see that there was a perfect energy transfer from potential to kinetic but by the time I added friction to the trial runs the total energy changed throughout. The total energy helps us to know if the coaster car will make it over the next hill. If the total energy decreases over the entirety of the ride, the energy becomes thermal. We lose energy to heat. 
Since potential energy is the energy of rest, this is the type of energy a coaster car has while it is at rest. Kinetic energy is the energy of movement, so when a coaster car is moving down a track kinetic energy is what is filling the area where we are losing potential energy. 
When we take a look at the initial drop height vs. the hill height that comes after, we can see that the initial drop height has to be higher. The car wouldn't have enough energy to get from a low initial drop to a higher hill, it wouldn't have enough kinetic energy. So if you were to create a new roller coaster the initial drop would have to be higher than the next hill for the coaster car to make it over that hill.
Lastly, the relationship between the mass and the different types of energy. If we compare some of the trials that I made, we can see that when the car mass was 40 kg and the potential energy was 1762 at the top of the hill.  That shows us that when we put the mass at 60 kg and sent it down the same hill, the potential energy at the top of that drop was 2644. This research shows us that the more mass that the coaster cars have, the more energy (potential, kinetic, and total) is higher.
 