Hi, Gonzales family here is how I would make my roller coaster. The first thing I'd do is build my fist drop because that sets the total energy for the whole ride and ensures we can get through the whole ride without stopping. I would make the height of the drop as high as I can so we have enough energy so in the sim I would make it (5m). This relates to how PE and KE relate to the height at the top and bottom of the drop. The height has a direct relationship with KE and PE because at the top of the hill, the PE is up, and at the bottom of the hill the KE is up. The next thing I would do is make a hill height. I have to make the hill height less than the initial drop because the roller coaster car won't have enough energy if the hill is taller than the drop, that's why I would make my hill height about (4.5m) tall in the sim because the roller coaster can still make it over and keep going after the hill. The hill heights about the drop height have a direct relationship so if the initial drop height is high the hill can be high just smaller than the drop because otherwise, it won't have enough energy to make it over the hill.

The car mass is a very important part of this roller coaster because having a higher car mass makes the car go faster, I would make the mass of the car 60kg. The mass of the car and PE and KE relationship is direct for both PE and KE because even if at the bottom of the hill the KE is high the mass is also high. And for PE the mass can be high and the PE can be high too so it's also a direct relationship. And the reason there is less KE at the bottom than the amount of PE at the top of the hill is some of the friction/ energy is transferred into heat energy because of friction. There is also a change from PE and KE throughout th whole coaster because PE is when the cart is at rest and not moving, and KE is when the caster is moving or not at rest. Also, the relationship between PE and KE and total energy is the amount of PE at the top of the hill is the amount of total energy there through the whole roller coaster. Energy transformation happens when the roller coaster goes down the hill and up the hill, it goes from PE to KE, to PE and changes throwout the rollercoaster.