Our team's initial drop height will be 4 metres. Here's how we came to this height.

First, we will understand how potential energy (PE) is a direct relationship with height. A direct relationship is where one variable increases/decreases with the second variable. This means if our height is 4 metres, our PE will be 1955 joules (J), and if our height is 5 metres, our PE is 2443 J. This shows that when our height increases, our PE also increases with it.

However, there's also a relationship between PE and kinetic energy (KE). When going down the roller coaster track, PE is gradually converted to KE, which is visible by the cart's overall acceleration. This also means that the total energy, or PE + KE, is never changed: raised or lowered. Potential Energy at the very beginning of the coaster defines total energy, and kinetic energy at the end of the roller coaster defines total energy. This means that during whatever point of the roller coaster, start, middle or end, KE + PE always equals total energy.

To understand why we don't lose or gain energy, we have to understand the Law of Conservation of Energy (LCE). LCE states that energy cannot be created nor destroyed, so we cannot get rid of or gain random energy. In an environment that has friction, it may seem like we are losing energy. This is because the mechanical energy, potential and kinetic, are being converted to non-mechanical energy: thermal, sound, etc. Calling back to our PE/KE relationship, the energy is still there and is being converted when moving down or up hills or loops.

Now let's look at initial drop height and hill height relationships. The reason we picked 4 metres for our initial drop height is that a hill height of 4 metres or more is pretty dang tall, and we feel like it couldn't be very safe for a high hill height. Anything lower than 4 metres seems more or less safe and enjoyable for our passengers. However, 4 metres or more isn't the only reason we lower the drop height under 4 metres. The real reason is the fact that the hill height cannot be the same height or higher than our initial drop height. This is because the cart will not have enough PE/total energy to make it across the entire track, and will instead get stuck at the hill. Since we need our passengers to make it across the hill, we needed to simply make the hill height smaller every single time. Our initial drop height was 5 during one test and our hill height was the same. Our cart had 12 J of kinetic energy before falling back down. This was the only test where our cart failed to cross the hill.

To conclude my message, let's finally talk about mass and energy. Mass affects energy in one simple way. To put it in a simpler way: imagine you are pushing a boulder and a rock. What takes more effort to push? The boulder! Not because it's larger but because it's denser than the rock. This can also be defined as inertia. If our cart is 40 kilograms, it would glide through the track but not really gather a lot of potential energy due to its lightweight. If we had a cart that is 60 kilograms, it would have a slower start but gather more energy at the top of the hill. We decided to choose the in-between, 50 kilograms. Mass is a very important factor when it comes to energy, and is crucial when designing a roller coaster.