I think the drop height of the roller coaster should be 5 meters tall. I want to have the drop height at 5 meters because height and Energy are directly related. In other words, when the drop height is greater the total energy will be greater. in our initial drop data when the drop was 5 meters the PE at the top was 2443 J compared to when the drop was at 2 meters the PE was 977 J. Also when the height is greater so is the connected energy at the bottom, at 5 meters the KE at the bottom was 2442 but when at 4 meters the KE at the bottom was 1954. The relationship between PE, KE, and TE is pretty clear,  with no friction the TE is always the same as the starting PE, and it doesn't change either at the end of the ride . The TE is always the amount of KE and PE when there's no friction. As the Car goes down the track the PE transforms its energy into KE. It always starts with all PE but at the bottom, the PE transforms all its energy into KE. When the height was 2 meters the PE was 977 and KE was 0 but at the Bottom, the KE was 977 and the PE was zero. The law of conservation of energy states that Energy can not be destroyed so The law of conservation of mass and Energy transformation work together. The reason the TE is always the same from the start to the finish is that no energy can be created. Even when a car has friction, the friction creates non-useful energy no energy was destroyed it just kind of went away into the surroundings. When it comes to the initial drop and hill drop height, the hill height has to always be smaller than the initial drop. If the hill height is the same size or bigger than the initial drop, then the initial drop won't have enough energy to get over the hill. When the hill and drop height were both at 5 meters the car didn't make it over the hill, yet when the hill height was 4 and the drop height was at 5 meters the car made it over the hill. Lastly when it comes to mass the greater the mass the greater the PE and KE. When at 50 kg the PE was 2448 and the KE was 2444, but when at 60 kg the PE was at 2937 and the KE was 2932. 