In order to design a roller-coaster that is safe but also exciting, I would recommend to have an initial drop that is greater than 3 meters. This is because the higher the initial drop is, the more total energy the design will have. Total energy is all of the different types of energy added up, like KE + PE = TE. For example, when the initial drop was 2 meters tall, there was 973 J of total energy, which might not be enough energy for the car to make it all the way to the end. When the initial drop was 4 meters tall, there was 1947 J of total energy, which is almost 1,000 more J than when the initial drop was only 2 meters tall. Also, the higher the initial drop is, the more potential energy the roller-coaster will have at the top of the initial drop. For example, when the initial drop height was 2 meters tall there was 973 J of potential energy at the top of the initial drop. When the initial drop height was 4 meters tall, there was 1947 J of potential energy at the top. This shows that height and potential energy have a direct relationship which means that when one variable increases, the other also increases. In a roller-coaster, the more potential energy there is at the top of the initial drop the better. This is because it will turn into a greater amount of kinetic energy at the bottom of the initial drop which will make the ride more exciting because it would be faster. 

The reason that the more potential energy at the top of the initial drop will turn into a greater amount of kinetic energy at the bottom of the initial drop is because of the Law of Conservation of Energy. This law states that energy cannot be created nor destroyed but within a closed system, energy can change form. A roller-coaster is a closed system which is why potential energy turns into kinetic energy as it's going down the initial drop. This is also why the higher the amount of potential or kinetic energy there is, the higher the amount of total energy there will be. Potential energy, kinetic energy and total energy have a direct relationship which means if one increases, the others will too. 

I would also recommend to have a car with a mass greater than 44 kg. This is because the more mass the car has, the more total energy there will be. For example, when the car mass was 46 kg the total energy was 2023 J. When the car mass was 52 kg, the total energy was 2287 J. This is because mass, kinetic energy and potential energy also have a direct relationship.

My last recommendation is to make the height of the initial drop greater than the height of any of the hills in the roller-coaster. This is because if the initial drop height is less than the height of the hills, the car will not make it over the hill because there isn't enough total energy. This is because the initial drop and the hill height have a direct relationship, so the more energy it takes to get over the hill, the more energy will be needed from the initial drop.