The height of the roller coaster's initial drop should be 5 meters. This is because in order for the coaster car to make it to the end of the ride the initial drop needs to be greater than the height of the hill. The initial drop height needs to be greater than the hill height because there needs to be enough PE to transfer into KE in order for the roller coaster car to make it over the hill. In a trial, when the height of the initial drop was 5m and the hill height was 5m the car's PE at the top of the initial drop was 2,446 J and the KE was 0 J. The PE and KE were the same at the bottom because the car didn't make it over the hill. The law of conservation of energy states that energy can't be created or destroyed. In one of my trials for the initial drop, the coaster car started with 2,443 Joules of PE and 0 Joules of KE at the top of the initial drop. At the bottom of the initial drop the PE was 1 Joule and the KE was 2,442 Joules. If the energy can't be created or destroyed, then where did this energy come from? Well, it was transferred between KE and PE. There was no KE at the top of the drop because the car was not in motion yet. The car had only PE because it was at rest and all of the energy was stored. At the bottom, however, the energy changed to KE because the car was in motion and the PE has fewer joules because there was less stored energy. To confirm that PE and KE transfer the energy between each other in another one of my trials the PE at the top of the initial drop was 1,955 J and KE 0 J. Then at the bottom the PE was 1 J and the KE was 1,554. The mass of the car affected the PE and KE because when the car's mass was 60 kg the PE, KE, and TE were greater. But when the car's mass was less, the car had less PE, KE, and TE. For example in my trials when the car's mass was 60 the PE was 2,932 J at the top of the initial drop and 2,932 J of KE and at the bottom of the drop, the TE was also 2,932. When testing the mass of the car and the height of the initial drop and hill, I noticed that the total energy remained the same throughout the entire ride. For example, when the car's mass was 50 kg the TE was 2,444 J at the start and 2,444 J at the end. Also when the initial drop height was 4 m the TE was 1955 J at the start and 1955 J at the end.