We have decided on how to make our roller coaster exciting. To start it off the initial drop height will be 5 meters tall. We have decided to make it 5 meters because we believe it will give the best ride experience. We believe this because in our experiment with an initial drop of 2 meters (the smallest) the PE at the top and the KE at the bottom were only 782 Joules. However when the drop was 5 meter (the tallest) the PE at the top and the KE at the bottom were both 1,955 Joules. 

We found that as the coaster goes down the track it converts PE into KE, when it reaches the bottom it will have completely converted. This also means that at any given time during the simulation the PE plus the KE will equal the total energy. This is due to the law of conservation of energy which states that energy can neither be created or destroyed. Because our simulations were in a frictionless world it was a perfect conversion from PE to KE but in our world it will not be. This shows us that there is a direct relationship between PE and KE, meaning if the potential energy is greater the kinetic energy at some point will also be greater. As the coaster moves a farther and farther distance the more energy that will be converted into thermal energy and the less total energy the coaster will have.

After the initial drop we think a hill height of 3.5 meters will be the best. We choose this due to wanting the rider to always be moving at a relatively quick speed but still experience a nice drop. We figured this due to our simulations showing that if the drop height was equal to the hill height it would come to a stop even in a frictionless world. But if the hill was to small the PE on top of the hill would be very low and it would not be as thrilling. While we could have just gone a meter under the initial drop height we thought it would be smart to be precautious of frictions affect and keep the cart going at a decent speed at all times. 

We decided that the heavier the cart the better, so we choose 60 kg. We decided this due to our simulations showing that if the cart was 40 kg the total energy would be 1955 but i the cart was 60kg the total energy would be 2932.