I have found from past experiments that the hill after the initial drop has to be lower than the height of the initial drop other wise it will not have enough energy to make it over. For example, I put my initial drop height at four meters and a 2 meter hill and 3 meter hill made it to the end or the track successfully. However a hill of 4 and 5 meters did not make it to the end and continued to sway back and fourth. All of the energy you have is shown to you with how much potential energy you have at the beginning. If you have an initial drop of 4 meters and a hill height of 5 meters the cart does not have enough stored energy to make it over a 5 meter hill because only has enough energy for 4 meters. You might be wondering than why can't the cart make it over a 4 meter hill if the initial drop is also 4 meters. This is because you cart at the start has enough energy to be at the top of the hill but not go over. When your cart goes it will make it to the top of the hill but it won't have quite enough energy to make it all the way over.
When choosing the height of your initial drop you have to know that more height equals more energy. If you pick a height of 5 meters for your initial drop will have significantly more total energy than an initial drop height of 2 meters. For example when we did an experiment with an initial drop of 5 meters and 2 meters, the 5 meter high one had 2420 joules of total energy and the 2 meter high one had only 968 joules of total energy. This is because potential energy is stored energy due to its position. The higher up something is the more stored energy it will have.
Potential energy and kinetic energy will always equal total energy when in a friction less area. For example during an experiment at the top of a 4 meter high initial drop, the cart had 1936 joules of potential energy, 0 joules of kinetic energy, and 1936 joules of total energy (1936+0=1936). When at the bottom of the drop there was 1 joule of potential energy, 1935 joules of kinetic, and 1936 joules of total energy (1+1935=1936). If you do have friction there will be energy transferred to a different energy that is not potential or kinetic energy. For example you might have thermal energy along with potential and kinetic energy. In this case you would add all of the energy's that are a part of the roller coaster to get the total energy. (this applies always, add all energy's to get total energy)
When sending the cart down the initial drop most of the potential energy will transfer to kinetic energy. This is because potential energy is stored energy and kinetic energy is movement. As a cart goes down a hill the cart is moving there for all of the stored energy gets converted to movement energy. At the top of a hill all/most of the energy will be potential energy because it is being stored where as at the bottom all/most of the energy is kinetic because there is movement in the cart. As soon as the cart starts to move down the hill the potential energy starts to be converted to kinetic and so on. 
When you start to consider the mass of the cart remember that more mass equals more energy. In one experiment I did with cart mass I noticed that the less mass there was the less energy there was. For example a 40 kg cart had a total energy of 1955 joules however a 60 kg cart had a total energy of 2933 joules. This is almost a 1000 joules difference in only 20 kg. The best thing to consider when picking a cart mass is that more energy means the cart will go faster and be more fun than less energy.
The law of Conservation of Energy states that energy can not be created or destroyed but it can be transferred from one type of energy to the next. This proves that when you know all of the energy's and how much of each adding the together will always equal the total energy or what you started with.
