During the initial drop lab I saw that the car would go down the hill faster when the initial drop was taller. This might be because there is more energy being added then going down a flat hill because it is harder for a roller coaster to move when sitting on a flat surface. When there is a bigger hill there is more force pushing it down the steeper hill. So when I create my roller coaster I am going to make my hill steeper so there is more PE in the roller coaster going down the hill.  At the bottom of the hill there will always be 0 PE no matter how high the hill is because your car needs to come to a complete stop so it does not go flying off the tracks. 

The relationship between KE and PE relate to when talking about height because you will always have 0 energy both ways at the bottom of a hill. The heavier the car mass is the more PE and total energy you will have at the top of the hill. 

Another thing that I could add to my roller coaster that I noticed in the mass and energy lab is that the heavier or more mass the car has the faster it goes down. I think this is because there is less gravity acting on heavier objects so it is easier to pick up speed and it moves down the hill smoother. To add extra KE to my roller coaster I will make my car heavier by adding things to it. Like coins or other things that could help add weight to my car. 

Energy transformation could be used when going up and down hills and making that fast change of speed so there is enough energy to make it down the slops and up the hills. There could also be energy transformation being used when the car comes to a complete stop at the end of the ride. If you just went down maybe a steep slope there is gonna be a lot of energy being used. In order for you car to not go flying off the tracks it needs to come to a complete stop which means 0J of energy. 

Finally during the add a hill lab when you make your design to complicated and you add to many hills it takes away from the total energy of the roller coaster. I could not make it up the last hills because I did not have enough energy left in my coaster. So something I am going to do is make my roller coaster less complicated and not add so many hills that I run out of energy and are not able to make it to the end. Another ways I could keep my total energy balanced or ways I could add so my car makes it up the hill is having a balance in between the car mass, PE, KE, and the initial drop height. Or adding more/less or these variables depending on what your coaster needs. 