Dear, Gonzales family

Hello, It is your roller coaster team and I am here to update you on the roller coaster design.

First off Is the height of your drop, the top of your drop will have no kinetic energy until we release the roller coaster, and all of the energy with be stored as potential energy. Along with that the higher are initial drop is the more PE there will be. We tested this a few times and noticed if your initial drop is a 5m drop there will be a lot more PE than if it's a 4m drop. However, once the roller coaster moves down the initial drop all that potential energy will become kinetic as kinetic energy is the energy when an object moves. once the cart reaches the bottom there will be no more potential energy left but only kinetic. Energy will always have the same total amount and does not matter how the potential and kinetic energy moves around energy cannot be created nor destroyed. Since energy cannot be created nor destroyed we recommend a tall initial drop to your roller coaster as that creates more potential energy at the start which is the total energy when started. When the roller coaster goes down are drop all that stored potential energy will slowly become kinetic energy as it moves down. Through this process, total energy will never change as without added force energy cannot be created nor destroyed. 

Here are our recommendations for the initial drop height. We recommend a taller initial drop as for a fun ride we want as much speed as possible. We want to start off with a lot of total energy the more we get the more speed we have. With many trials, we know the taller the initial drop the more energy you get.

Now for our hill height.  For our hill height, we recommend also being tall just like that initial drop since energy cannot be created nor destroyed we need all the energy we can get. However, our hill must shorter than are initial drop. With many tests ran we noticed that being exactly at are hill height it will not go over. This is because you cannot create more energy to go over a taller hill than your initial drop height. Therefore we can have anything shorter than an initial drop for are hill. 

Our recommendation is something close to the initial drop height but shorter. This is for enjoyment and our higher hill height will help us with the speed of your ride.

Lastly for the mass of the cart. My team knows that the more mass of the cart the more total energy we will have. through many tests, we noticed with the higher the mass cart the more total energy are car has. We recommend a higher mass for the cart.

Thank you for your time we will get to you soon.