Regarding the roller coaster I am building for you, I would like to talk about what mass and heights are going to work the best for us to create the best roller coaster out there. First thing I would like to address is the initial drop height, I think that this should be the highest point on the roller coaster standing at 5 meters high. If the initial drop is the highest point, it allows for the most potential energy to be present and that potential energy will be converted into kinetic and thermal energy. When the total energy is the highest it can be it means that we can conserve the most energy throughout the ride and not lose it to thermal energy.  When the potential energy converts it will keep more kinetic energy than if we lowered the initial drop height. 

Now regarding the hill heights, I think those should be about 3.5 meters high, bringing into account the variables of gravity and friction. When the potential energy goes down the initial drop and converts to kinetic energy I believe that it will amount to enough velocity and energy to propel up and over the hill before falling backwards and failing. Unfortunately the hill height cannot be a greater size over the initial drop height because of the law of conservation of energy. We can't create energy or destroy it, only maximize how we choose to make this roller coaster convert it by using math and calculations. We lose enough energy that s converted to thermal and when there isn't even enough for it to make it back over the hill if it was the same as the drop, it cannot be higher than it either.

Finally I would like to take the time to address the cars mass. I personally believe that it should be about 55 kilograms because it will allow for a lot of potential energy but it also takes some weight off so that the car has an easier time getting up the hill. Since mass is a variable for the potential energy equation and it they have a direct relationship, we know that if the mass of the car goes up than we can be certain that the amount of potential energy will also go up. We also know that it will be converted to kinetic energy because of their inverse relationship.

We have used our best math skills to make sure that this is one of the best roller coasters that we could make and maximized the fun. I hope this rough draft of the plans and calculations pleases the family and park and we look forward to seeing how this project will play out. 
