In making this coaster it is important to make sure that the drop is taller than all hills that are incorporated into the design. I understand that you may find this news disappointing so allow me to explain.

Firstly, I must introduce the different types of energy that are in effect here and how they apply to the issue at hand. Kinetic energy (KE) is the energy of motion, it and potential energy (PE) is stored energy. At the top of the drop all of the coaster's energy is PE and as it rolls down that energy gets converted into KE. The KE and PE when added together form the total energy (TE) in a scenario. The total amount of energy in a closed system is always constant, meaning that no matter the amount of different energies, when they are added together (KE + PE) they will equal the same total energy. When the amount of energy remains constant like this it is following what is called the law of conservation of energy. When you increase the height of the drop, the amount of PE also increases because of its increased time in which it is left the stored energy of more time being pulled by gravity.

Next, I would like to elaborate on how the Law of conservation of Energy makes it so that your hill must be a certain height. While performing trials to better understand how the different factors would impact our designs we tested to see what the ratio from drop height to hill height had to be. Our drop height in the trials was 4m and as we tested the hill heights, hills that were taller or the same height as the drop caused the coaster to roll backward without getting over the hill. The science behind these results is that due to the Law of Conservation of Energy, there was only as much energy as the car gained from the initial drop. Therefore, the car could only make it up shorter hills  han the drop and as we know, extra energy can't be gained. If you look at results from these tests you will notice that the amount of PE and KE fluctuate. This is because the energy is being converted from one to another, if you add the PE and KE together, they will still equal the same total energy as before.

Another factor that will later come to play in the design is the mass of the coaster because of how this effects the KE and PE. From our trials we learned that the more mass the car has, the more PE and KE it has. This also means the the amount of energy in general is increased when more mass is present. This is partially due to the law of inertia because the coaster's larger mass makes it harder to stop and it therefore builds up more energy..

Therefore there must be a hill smaller than the initial drop in the design.

 