Dear Gonzales Family,

I have been working on a design for the new roller coaster for your amusement park. I think that the roller coaster should have a very tall initial drop of 5.0 meters at the release height. The initial drop has the most PE of the entire ride, and provides the PE to get the car in motion, providing enough PE to convert to KE to keep the car in motion throughout the ride. The higher the drop, the more PE & it will have. The PE would be 2442 J & the KE would be 0 J at the top, but when the car reaches the bottom of the drop, the KE would be 2442 J & the PE would be 0 J. Wondering why that happens? The scientific term is the Law of Conservation of Energy, which states that once energy is created, it cannot be destroyed, only converted to PE or KE. There is a direct relationship between PE and KE. Since energy cannot be destroyed, the PE at the top of the drop will be converted to KE at the bottom. The total energy, or TE, is the PE & KE combined.   Now, let's talk hills. The hills provide a fun experience for the riders & make the ride more interesting. But, in order for the hills to be usable, the initial drop has to be higher than the hills that come after it so that the car has enough energy to get over the hills. I propose that we add 2 hills, each having a height of 2.0 meters. The PE at the top of the hill would be 980 J, and the KE at the top would be 230 J. In the simulation, the total energy was 1211 J, and the car made it over the hill. Mass and energy of the roller coaster car is important as well. There is an inverse relationship between the PE and the mass of the car. The same is true for the mass of the car and KE. The heavier the roller coaster car is, the slower it will progress throughout the ride. If the car becomes too heavy, it won't have enough energy to make it to the end of the ride. I suggest that the car mass would be 40 kg. The PE at the top of the drop would be 1955 J, and the KE at the bottom of the drop would be 1951 J. The total energy would be 1955 J of energy. 