Hello Gonzales family! I've got some information on my design for an exciting yet safe roller coaster. The first critical thing I've observed that your coaster needs, is the initial drop must be taller then the hill that follows after. There's great reasoning behind that, and I'll tell you why. The higher your roller coaster is, the faster the cart will move. That is because the higher the drop is the more PE the cart has at the top of the drop. When the cart gains motion the PE will turn to KE resulting in faster movement.That is because your PE is a large amount of stored energy. Once the object gains motion, that stored energy will become a large amount of KE (motion). That is because the law of conservation of energy states energy cannot be created nor destroyed, but can change forms. I noticed tall drops having large PE and KE in my trials. For example in my 1st trial I has a release height of 2m. Resulting with the coasters PE at the top of the drop being 976, and the KE at the bottom of the drop being 975.  But in my 4th trail I had a release height of 5m. That resulted with the coasters PE at the top of the drop being 2440, and the KE at the bottom of the drop being 2392. So you see, the taller hill will have the larger amount of energy.  The total energy will always be the same as the PE at the top of the initial drop, because energy cannot be created nor destroyed. The reason the TE is the same as the PE and not the KE is because the KE is just PE that changed form. If the hill is taller the the drop, the coaster will not make it over the hill. I know that because, in my 5th trial my hill was 5m and so was my drop. The PE at the top of my drop was 1961, but the PE at the top of the hill was 1960. The PE amounts were to similar, causing the KE from the drop not to be enough to get over the hill.That happened because the drop didn't have enough KE to get over the hill. Sense the hill is taller then the drop, the hill had more PE. Which means when the coaster drops, the PE will turn to KE but won't have enough energy to get over the hill. 
Another concern is the mass of the cart.  The more mass the cart has the more PE at the initial drop, and KE at the bottom of the drop. For example in my 1st trial I had a cart mass of 40, resulting with the PE at the top of the drop being 1953. The KE at the bottom of the drop was 1953 as well. In my trials when I had my cart set at 50kg, the PE was 2930 and my KE was 2920. The more mass, the more energy!

From my trails and research, the initial drop height should be 5m, and the hill height should be 3m. So then the drop will be taller then the hill, allowing the cart to make it's way over the hill; the cart will then have a lot KE for the ride down the hill. The cart needs enough KE to make it's way to the end of the ride, because no one wants to stop in the middle of the track. The mass of the car should be either 50kg or 60kg so the coaster can have large amounts of PE and KE. 