A recommendation for the roller coaster design so far for the intitial drop is to have it at 5 meters. In a frictionless environment, the total energy that the roller coaster starts with is the total energy it has at the end of the ride.  When the hill is higher, there is more energy so the ride could be more fun if there is a big drop at the beginning. Height and potential energy have a direct relationship because when the height increases or is greater, the potential energy also increases or is greater. In the simulation, when the initial drop height was at 4 meters, the potential energy was at 1955. And when the initial drop was at 5 meters, the potential energy was at 2443 J. The total energy and the potential energy also have a direct relationship because when the potential energy increases, so does the total energy. And when the potential energy decreases so does the total energy. When the initial drop was at 4 meters, the total energy was 1955 J. When the initial drop height was at 5 meters, the total energy was at 2443 J. When the car moves down the drop, the potential energy is transferred into kinetic energy, and at the bottom of the hill the car has 2443 J of kinetic energy. Potential and kinetic energy have a direct relationship because if the potential energy increases, so does the kinetic energy and if the potential energy decreases, so does the kinetic energy. This proves that the higher the initial drop, the more total energy there is. 
The initial drop has all the energy that the ride has, it needs to be higher than all of the hills and loops. If the hill height was the same or greater than the initial drop height, the car would not be able to make it over the hill. For the hill height, I would have it at 4.5 meters because it is under 5 meters and would still be a fun drop. The law of conservation states that energy can not be creater or destroyed. If there was friction, the hills would have to be even shorter because some of the potential energy would get converted into thermal energy. But since the environment is frictionless, the hill height doesn't have to be as short. When the initial drop was at 5 meters, and the hill height was at 4 meters, the car made it over the hill. But when the initial drop was still at 5 meters and the hill height was also at 5 meters, the car did not make it over the hill. This proves that the hill height needs to be shorter than the intitial drop in order for the car to make it over the hill. 
A recommendation for the mass of the car is 60 kg. I would have it at 60 kg because when the mass is greater, so is the potential energy which means so is the total energy. Mass and potential energy has a direct relationship because when the mass increases, so does the potential energy. Mass and kinetic energy also have a direct relationship because when the mass increases so does the kinetic energy. When the mass of the car was at 50 kg, the total energy was 2443 J. But when the car mass was 60 kg, the total energy was 3932 J. This proves that the greater the mass the more total energy there is. 
That is why I would have the initial drop height at 5 meters, the hill height at 4.5 meters and the mass of the car at 60 kg.