Dear Gonzales family, 
Our science team has been building an exciting and functional roller coaster for your theme park. While building, we learned about certain requirements of the roller coaster so it would make it to the end of the ride without stopping. A correct initial drop is essential for the roller coaster's success in functionality. The height of the initial hill is the most important thing when creating a roller coaster that will cause enough energy in the car to get its riders to the end. Based on our data, if the hill height of the first drop is the same or less than the second hill's height, the car will not reach the end. We realized this from what these bits of data showed us: 
Drop height: 2.5  Hill height: 2.25 
PE at the initial drop was 1224 J and there was 0 J of kinetic energy,  and at the top of the second hill, it was 1098 J of potential energy with 126 J of kinetic energy. The car made it to the end.
This data shows that the car successfully gets to the end of the track when the second hill height is not as high as the initial drop height. We then decided to try out the experiment with a hill height that matched the initial drop height. This is the data that we got.
Drop height: 2.5 Hill height: 2.5
PE at the initial drop was 1224 J of energy. At the top of the hill, there was 1224 J of potential energy and 0 J of kinetic energy, meaning the car had stopped moving. This means that the car would not make it to the end of the ride, but just go back down the hill backward, as gravity pulled the car back down towards the center of the earth.
Looking at this, we made a hypothesis that the car would also not be able to make it to the end of the ride if the hill height was higher than the initial drop, and decided to test our hypothesis. This is the data from our final test on hill height.
Drop height: 2.5 Hill height: 5 
PE at the top of the initial drop was 1224 J of energy, with no J of kinetic energy. The car made it 3/4 of the way up the hill before the energy was 1224 J and couldn't go up anymore, causing the car to go back down the hill again. This confirmed our hypothesis about hill height, and we have concluded that the hill height has to be smaller than the initial drop height. We believe that the conservation of energy supports our evidence and conclusion, as it states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. Since this law is true, it makes sense that right before the energy caps out at the amount of energy that the initial drop height had the car goes back down the hill.