My recommendation is we start out roller coaster's initial drop at the height of 5 meters. This way we can have the most energy possible. I know this is true because when I tested the initial drop height the first trial was 2 meters and there was only 977 J of energy. When I added height to the drop and made it 5 meters high there was 2443 J of energy. The joules that are part of the potential energy are equal to the total energy until the cart starts to move down the hill. When the cart moves down the hill PE is transferred into KE and they can keep going back and forth while going up and down hills. The height of the hill affects the potential energy at the top of the hill because as we know when the height is greater there will be more potential energy. This also means there will be more kinetic energy because according to the law conservation of energy can not be created nor destroyed but it can be transferred into other types of non-useable energy which is because of friction. Even with non-useable energy all the potential and kinetic energy will be added together and be the total energy at any point in the roller coaster. That could be at the top of a hill or the bottom of a hill. It doesn't matter at what point the cart is at all the energy will add up to total energy. My next recommendation is we have a hill height of 3.5 meters. This would be the best selection because we can't have a hill higher or equal to the initial drop because it would need energy that it doesn't have and because of the law of conservation of energy we know we can't just create energy. When we ran a trial of 3.5 meters it had a potential energy of 1714 J at the top of the hill and 733 J of kinetic energy but the total energy was still enough to get over the hill and continue to keep going through the rest of the ride. The mass of the car should be 50 kg because mass and energy are a direct relationship, so when mass is higher energy is higher. We don't want the cart too heavy because of friction it wouldn't make it over some of the hills that a cart with less mass would. When we ran our trial with mass the 60 kg cart had the most energy but if we want a coaster that will have hills we should go a little lighter so 50 kg should be the best weight for the coaster. I hope you take my ideas into consideration and make the coaster the best it can be.