Dear Gonzales family, we have done many experiments to help determine what factors go into creating the perfect roller coaster design. From our experiments this is what we have found.

First off we have discovered that the height of the initial drop directly relates to the potential energy. During one of our trials we tested having an initial drop of 5 meters compared to an initial drop of 4 meters. We found that at a drop height of 5 meters, the coaster car had a potential energy of 2440 Joules while the 4 meter drop height only had a potential energy of 1952 Joules.  From this we can see that the higher the initial drop the more potential energy will be stored.

From our hill experiment we have seen that the initial drop and hill height are directly related. When the initial drop was lower or the same height as the hill, the car wouldn't make it over. This shows that we have to have a higher initial drop than the hill. 
Also relating to the hill we saw that when the coaster car goes down the initial drop and comes to the hill the energy seems to transfer twice. The first time is as the coaster car drops down the hill. That stored potential energy is transferred to kinetic since the car is in movement. As the car slows down going up and over the hill that kinetic energy transfers to potential for a slight second. 

From our mass and energy experiment we were able to tell that the more mass the car had, the more potential and kinetic energy there was. For instance when we trialed with a car mass of 50 kg, the car had a potential energy of 1345 Joules (same with Kinetic energy at the bottom). But when we trialed with a car mass of 45 kg, the car had a potential and kinetic energy of 1205. That's why we think that our car should have more mass so that the car has more speed.

From all of these trials we can tell that there is lots of energy transformation happening throughout the ride of a roller coaster. We know from the law of conservation of energy (energy cannot be created nor destroyed) that the total energy of the car is being transferred back and forth between potential and kinetic energy. No matter what amount of potential energy or kinetic energy there is during any point in the ride, both of them added together equal the total energy. The total energy it the total amount of energy throughout the ride.

Due to our research and experiments I can conclude that the coaster should have a higher initial drop than the hill, the car should have a heavier mass for more energy, and while all being safe. 





