One recommendation I have for the roller coaster is to have the initial drop at 5 meters. This height is the best option because it would have the most potential energy to keep the ride going for as long as possible. When I had my initial drop height at 3 meters, the PE at the top of the drop was 1466 Joules. When I increased the height to 5 meters, the PE increased to 2443 Joules. This is because the more height an object has, the more potential energy it has. At the bottom of the initial drop at 5 meters, the KE was 2442 Joules. My PE was 1 Joule. This is because at the bottom of the drop is when the car is moving the fastest, so the KE is the highest at that point. The PE is only 1 Joule because it is barely off the ground at that point. The total energy stayed at 2443 Joules. It is at that because the Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy can not be created or destroyed, but it can convert between different types of energy. In a frictionless roller coaster, the energy is constantly changing from PE to KE depending on the height and motion of the car. 

Another recommendation I have for the roller coaster is to have the hill height lower than the initial drop height. If the hill height is the same as or greater than the initial drop height, then the car won't have enough total energy to continue the ride. When I had the initial drop height at 5 meters, and the hill height also at 5 meters, the car did not make it to the end of the ride. If we had the initial drop at 5 meters, then a good hill height would be 4.5 meters. At this height, it's short enough to continue on the ride, but it's tall enough to be a fun ride. The reason it would be more fun is that it would have more PE, and therefore would convert to more KE at the bottom of the hill and move faster. 

One last recommendation I have is to have the mass of the car somewhere between 50 and 60 kilograms. I recommend this because the more mass an object has, the more PE it has. That makes for a fun and safe ride because when it converts to KE, it will continue throughout the ride and move faster than a car with less mass would. For example, when I had a mass of 40 kilograms, the total energy was 1956 Joules. When I increased the mass to 50 kilograms, the total energy increased to 2934 Joules. These are all of the recommendations I have for the new roller coaster.