The initial drop height should be 5m, this way we can get a lot of Potential Energy (PE) and Kinetic Energy (KE)  to get our ride going and can allow the cart to run on mechanical energy. Mechanical Energy is letting the ride go through the track without extra pushes on the track. In a frictionless world the PE and KE would be the same at the bottom of the drop, we saw this in our simulations. With a 5m drop our simulations showed that the PE was 2932 with a 60kg cart this is because mass and energy are related. A cart with a higher mass will have more PE at the top of the drop we saw this when we tested the initial drop our carts weighed 60kg with a 5m drop the PE at the top of the drop was 2932 Joules. When we tested the hill height our cart weighed 55kg with a 4m drop the PE was 2442 Joules. Based on the data we also see that height and PE are related. At the bottom of a drop the KE was the same as the PE at the top of the drop with no friction. As the cart goes down the drop the PE we had at the top of drop transfers into KE. PE transfers to KE when the cart is moving. In a frictionless world the Total Energy (TE) would stay the same throughout, but since we live in a world with friction some of the total energy would be lost due to friction. The Law of Conservation of Energy says that energy is not created nor destroyed but can transfer between energy types, when we lose energy to friction the energy transfers to non useful energy, so when friction happens we have less PE & KE. I also recommend a 5m drop because then we can have a variety of hill heights, the hill height cannot be higher than the drop height. This is because we want there to be enough energy to get it over the hill our goal is to use mechanical energy to get the cart through the track, as said before this is not possible without extra pushe(s). The cart will also have more TE if it is heavier for our simulations we used 55kg and had made it up the hill sucessfully with energy still to use to get through the rest of the track.