Dear Gonzales Family, After running multiple tests I believe your family can make changes from me and my group. First, The height of my initial drop was 1960 PE and 0 KE but when my rollercoaster went down the track the energies changed from Pe to Ke. Then the energies in my trials changed once hitting the bottom of the track making the Ke 1960 and pe 0 it was the opposite on the top of the hill. I started at 4m making the pe and Ke stays the same throughout the trials I took but the Ke and PE can always be different numbers on a different part of the track. The relationship between Pe, Ke, and total energy is the energy can all be added together to equal the total energy. So the more Pe and Ke your ride will have will make the amount of total energy at the end of the ride higher. As I saw in my data the changes in Pe and Ke when going down the hill is once the coaster starts moving the Pe and KE will both change. So when my cart is at the initial drop the Pe is 1960 and the Ke is 0 but once the cart gets kinetic energy it will go down and the energy will go all to Ke the opposite at the start. The law of conservation of energy is applied when the amount of friction you put on makes the energy not be lost but be conserved to different types of energy. So the less friction your family put on the less conservation of energy will have to be used and your ride will go faster. I and my group also noticed that the hill height had to be lower than the initial drop so when my initial drop was 4 and the hill height of 4.5 my cart would not have enough Pe and Ke to make it up the hill. So your family will need to be aware of the heights and make sure the heights of the hills, loops, etc. Wil has enough energy to make it up. The relationship between Mass, Ke, and Pe is that they all have important roles and your family needs to be controlling the right amount for each. Because the more mass you have for your ride the more Pe and Ke your cart will have. But on the flip side, your family needs to know not to add too much mass to where it is a safety concern. I hope these recommendations can help you guys in putting a rollercoaster up soon.