The goal of the initial drop is to get as much energy as possible. This will enable the coaster to go through loops and hills. The more energy there is, the more of this the coaster will be able to do. The higher the initial drop is, the better. This gives it more potential energy as well as increasing the mass of the car. Overall, this increases the total amount of energy at the end, too. We know this because at one of my trials, the release height was at 2.5 meters, and the potential energy was 1222. Then, another one of my trials at a release height of 5, ended up with a total of 2937 J of potential energy. This shows that the higher the release height, the more potential energy there is. This can also be proved through the Law of Conservation of Energy. This says that the amount of energy, like matter, cannot be created or destroyed. It can only be transformed into kinetic or potential energy. Therefore, we need to have the initial drop as high as possible.

The hill height has to be lower than the initial drop. We were thinking about having two or three hills. Again, since we are planning on making the initial drop pretty high, we can have the hills be pretty high as well (just not as high as the initial drop, of course). This is explained through our initial drop height, as the higher the drop is the more PE we have. As I’ve done some experiments, all of the coasters have made it to the end when the initial drop was higher than the hill was. An example would be when I had the initial drop PE at 1958 J; the hill height was 3 (at that point the PE was 1459 J). An example of a time when I didn’t make it would be when I had the initial drop PE at 1591 J. The PE, as close to the top of the hill as I could get it, was 1521 J. 

The more mass an object has, the faster it will go. This means it has more energy. We believe the best kind of ride are the kind of coasters that go at a quick speed. The mass of the car we would like for you to take into consideration would be one that has a mass of 60 kg. This will ensure a fast ride and have more room to make more fun and exciting obstacles in the roller coaster. When the car mass is 60, the PE is 2933. However, when you decrease the mass to 50, the PE goes down as well to 2444. 

Thus this is our final coaster we would like you to take into consideration. The initial drop height will be pretty high, as to ensure it will be able to make through any loops and hills incorporated in the design. A coaster with a few tall hills and a few loops would also be included. Finally, the coaster would have a lot of mass in order to have a lot of velocity. 

