Dear Mr.Gonzales, my class and me have made a design for your rollercoaster the best we could. I will explain the science that we used to help make our decision. The initial drop height has a direct relationship with both the potential energy at the top and the kinetic energy at the bottom. According to my experiments, if there is no friction then the higher the drop height the more potential, kinetic, and total energy there is. For example, with an initial drop height of 1 meter, the kinetic, potential, and total energy is 977 Joules. But when you increase the drop height to 5 meters, the kinetic potential and total energy is 2443 Joules. Potential kinetic and total energy all have a direct relationship. According to my data no matter the height the potential kinetic and total energy stayed the same just being transferred from one energy to the other. For example, if there were 977 joules of potential energy at the top then there would be 977  joules of kinetic energy at the bottom.  And if there were 0 joules of kinetic energy at the top then there would be 0 joules of potential energy at the bottom. The law of conservation of energy states that matter can not be created or destroyed it is instead transferred from one energy to another. There is also a direct relationship between drop height and hill height. When you try a drop height of 5 meters and then a hill height of 5 meters then the car does not make it over the hill due to not having enough kinetic energy. But when you try a 4.9-meter hill with the same drop height then the car has enough kinetic energy to make it over the hill. So in conclusion the drop height has to be higher than the hill height for the cart to have enough energy to go over the hill. There is also a relationship between potential kinetic and total energy. According to my data with a constant height of 5 meters, the larger the mass, the more energy there is. For example, when I used a 50 kg car the total energy was 2434 joules. When I used the 60 kg cart at the same height drop, the total energy was 2936 joules. So as you can see Mr.Gonzales, our class has used our knowledge of science and data to make a fun and safe rollercoaster design. I look forward to seeing you again.