To have a fun and exciting rollercoaster, a recommendation I would make for the Gonzales family is to have the height of the initial drop be 5 meters, the height of the hill should be 2 meters, and the car mass should be 60 kg. It would be best for the initial drop to be 5 meters because the more height you have, the more TE there will be. At the top of the initial drop, the more height means there will be more PE and then as the car is moving, the PE will change into KE and other types of energy which will make the car go faster. For example, when I tested the initial drop height of 2 M the amount of PE was 887 J, but when I tested the drop height of 5 M the amount of PE at the top of the initial drop was 2,179 J. The total energy will always equal the sum of the kinetic energy, potential energy, and other types of energy that the PE changed into.  The PE and KE added up together always equal the TE because the PE chakinetic energy plus thenges into KE during the rollercoaster. The relationship between KE and PE is that the PE at the top of a hill is always equal to the KE at the bottom of the hill when there is no friction. This is because the PE changes into KE as the height decreases. To support this, at the top of the initial drop the KE is always 0 because KE is energy in motion and at the top of the initial drop the car is not in motion. However, as the car starts moving, the PE (energy at rest) changes into KE since the car is in motion. The TE will always be the same as the PE at the top of the initial drop unless there is friction. The Law of Conservation of Energy tells us that energy is neither created nor destroyed, the same energy just changes into different types of energy like KE, thermal energy, and more. The hill height should be 2 meters because the hill height will have to be smaller than the initial drop height. This is because energy can't be created nor destroyed and if the hill height is greater than the initial drop height, energy can't be created so the car won't be able to make it over the hill. When I tested the hill height at 5 meters and the initial drop height also at 5 meters, the car wasn't able to make it over the hill because energy can't be created nor destroyed. When I tested the hill height at 2 meters and the initial drop height at 5 meters, there was more TE than when the hill height was greater. I think the mass should be 60 kg because the more mass the car has, the more PE, KE, and TE there will be. When the mass of the car was 40 kg the TE was 1,565 Joules, but when the car mass was 60 kg the TE was 2,348 Joules. That is why I think the height of the initial drop should be 5 meters, the height of the hill should be 2 meters, and the car mass should be 60 kg.