After carefully examining the data we gathered over the days of experiments with the simulation here are the recommendations I would make to the Gonzales family.

I would suggest having a higher initial drop because of the excitement factor. 
I would suggest this because the higher the initial drop means the more potential energy the roller coaster car gets, also the more potential energy at the top of the drop means the more kinetic energy it would get as well.
If the car has more kinetic energy then it will result in a faster moving roller coaster.
With a faster moving roller coaster means you can incorporate more fun things like hills and loops into the ride.
Another thing that I would suggest to the Gonzales family is to have not a super light or heavy car.
I say this because with a super light car there won't be as much total energy on the roller coaster, also not having a super heavy car because that could possibly be dangerous to the ride and the riders.
A final thing that I would suggest to the Gonzales family is not to build a hill higher than or the same height as the initial drop.
This is because it would not because the amount of total energy gained by the initial drop would not be enough to get over the hill, causing the ride to not make it to the end.
A reason that I would suggest to not have a super heavy car is because that makes more friction. 
With the conservation of energy and energy transformation I know that even with a heavy car that has more potential energy, it will transfer more energy to friction instead of kinetic energy.
Because energy cannot be created nor destroyed I know a heavier car won't give as much kinetic energy as you may think.
With a higher drop, it would mean more potential energy and the amount of potential energy at the top would be the amount of total energy if the car is not moving.
But the more total energy a car has the more kinetic energy it will have because kinetic energy plus potential energy plus other energy equals the total energy, and more total energy means a more exiting ride.

