From our series of experiments, we found that height had a positive and linear correlation with the level of potential energy before the drop and the kinetic energy after the drop, meaning when height increased, so did the amount of potential energy. As height is one of the variables in the equation for calculating the amount of potential energy(PE=mgh), this was expected. Kinetic energy, however, does not have height as a variable in its equation. However, we also found that potential energy is converted to kinetic energy as the drop progresses. Potential energy is the highest at the peak of the drop, where height is greatest, and kinetic energy is the highest at the bottom of the drop, where velocity is greatest. While descending, potential energy decreases while kinetic energy increases. This explains why kinetic energy increased with height, despite there being no direct correlation: The peak of kinetic energy is dependent on potential energy, which is in turn dependent on height. This means that the amount of energy available for the ride is determined by the hill height.
The total energy in a system is determined by summing the kinetic and potential energies, so it remains constant despite these changes. When kinetic energy decreases or increases, potential energy increases or decreases by the same amount, so their sum is still constant. This is consistent with the Law of Conservation of Energy, as the total energy is unchanging. However, friction can cause some energy to become heat energy, leading to less usable energy for the roller coaster. Again, to maximize the total energy of the ride, the hill height should be increased.
Potential energy is energy that has yet to be released. When it is, it becomes kinetic energy. In the case of the roller coaster, the amount of gravitational potential energy is how far the roller coaster could fall. The kinetic energy is the energy of the car as it falls. 
From our trials, we found that the height of the hill cannot exceed the drop height. This is because the amount of kinetic energy gained from the initial drop will be less than the amount of energy required to summit the hill if the hill is greater in height. For example, if a ride has a starting drop of five meters, it will only be able to pass hills that are less than five meters in height. The hill height also cannot be equal to the drop height, otherwise it still does not pass the peak of the hill.
Similarly to height, we found that mass also had a positive and linear correlation with the amount of potential energy and kinetic energy. In both equations(PE=mgh and KE=1/2mv^2), mass is a coefficient, so this was expected. However, while increasing the mass of the car may make a greater amount of energy available to the system, a greater amount of energy will also be required to propel the roller coaster up a hill. Mass does not greatly affect the ride unless considering friction. 