Hello Gonzales family,
We have tested many different ways to make your roller coaster fun and safe. We are going to continue to adjust our experiments and add more features but here's what we have so far.

 Starting with the height of your drop to have the max speed we would want a higher drop to get the most PE at the top and lead into that KE at the bottom. One of our tests that proves this was when we started by just testing the initial height. We tested the release height at 5 meters giving us a PE of 2440 and KE at the bottom of 2439. We also tested a height of 2.25 meters initial drop and we only had a PE at the top at 1098. This shows that the smaller the size of the initial drop the smaller the Potential energy. Our relationship between PE and KE with no friction is different than with friction. When we have no friction in our test the potential energy when the cart gets released moves into that KE since the object is in motion no energy is being created or destroyed the energy is just going from one into the other. The PE is the stored energy that transforms into the KE when the object is in motion. When the object is in motion that PE drops to zero and turns into KE. When all the energy is stored we have PE but no KE. Total energy relates to the PE and KE at the end of the drop. At the end of the drop our total energy is the amount of energy we have its the KE+PE at the end of hat drop. As the cart starts at the top of the drop it only has PE and no KE but as the cart goes into motion that PE releases and put that KE into action. We know that the experiment we have is correct because it follows the Law of conservation of mass meaning no energy is being created nor destroyed that energy is always being kept somewhere. The energy is never being destroyed they are just turning into the next when in motion or at rest.

On to hill height, we tested all our initial drops at 4 meters and changed that hill height we discovered that at a 3.99 hill height, the cart made it over but once we hit 4 the cart didn't. This means that we are going to have to make that hill height less than the initial drop for the cart to make it over.  We also tried our experiment with different cart masses and only changed that. We had one experiment having the cart at 40kg and one at 60kg. After running that experiment the data showed that the more mass the more PE the cart had which could be a factor in what we chose in the mass of that cart. The mass affects the coaster because the more mass is the more PE we have which with no friction will add more KE as well. The mass also has the force of gravity acting on it so there is more gravity pulling that object down giving that more energy as well. We are going to continue to make observations with the initial height and hill along with starting that loop.
