I would give the Gonzales family several recommendations to make sure the coaster was the best it could be. I would give them two main suggestions: make the cars as massive as possible and be mindful of height.

First, I would tell them to make their cars as massive as possible. I would do this because cars with more mass have more total energy and will therefore have more potential energy at the top and kinetic at the bottom of the ride. This is because the total energy is just the combination of all forms of energy in a system, which in this system, is potential and kinetic. I know this  from my research because when the cars had a mass of 40 kilograms, the total energy was 1,565 joules, but when the cars had a mass of 60 kilograms, the total energy was 2,348 joules.

My second suggestion would be to make the initial drop height as tall as they possibly could. I would make this suggestion for multiple reasons. One of them is because if they are relying solely on mechanical energy, then anything taller than the initial drop of the coaster would be literally insurmountable. This is because the amount of kinetic energy something needs to climb over something is equal to the amount of potential energy it would have at it's peak. Furthermore, the taller something is, the more potential energy something has at it's peak. As a result of this, if a hill on the roller coaster was taller than the initial drop, then the car wouldn't have the required kinetic energy to climb over it.

Here is why I would try to get the Gonzales family to make the coaster as tall as possible. It is because not only will a taller coaster have more potential energy, but it will give more time for the potential energy to transition into kinetic energy as the car goes down drops and hills. The Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, and can only be transferred from one stage to another. Additionally, as the roller coaster is a closed system, it can only use energy it has to begin with.