              The most important recommendations I have for the Gonzales family is that the larger the mass of the cart the farther the cart will go. Also the first drop must be taller than the second drop or loop so that the coaster car gets to the end. During my research of the coaster car I found that even if the cart is equal with the second drop or loop it will still not get over, but when beyond it gets over the hill easily. So having a high initial drop is key to having a fun yet safe ride. Another point is to not have too much friction on the track rails, because this can dramatically slow down a roller coaster car. The slower the roller coaster the less people will want to ride it meaning lower ticket sales.

Height and potential energy are important because the more height the more potential energy and the more potential energy the faster the ride goes. Also in my data there was more energy when there was more height.
           
Potential and Kinetic energy are important because the more potential there is. The more probability that it will be converted this causes a faster ride. In my data it showed that if I had 2,000 joules of potential energy at the start I had a number close to that of the start at the end. So potential energy is directly correlated to how much kinetic energy is made.

Total energy is the energy after all is added together in a closed environment. Energy cannot be lost so whatever the total energy is at the start that number will be the same at the end. I learned this through the law of conservation of energy which states that energy cannot be created or destroyed rather converted. So the total energy stayed the same the whole time because of that.

The more mass that a coaster car has the more potential energy is created which then in turn makes more kinetic energy. My data proves this because when my car was 60 kg it moved faster than my 50 kg. This is because the more mass gives more potential energy. So this is important when designing a roller coaster
           