Dear Gonzales family, 
I have conducted some research and have some suggestions to you about what i think the best way to build a roller coaster would be. The initial drop should be as high as possible, because as proven in my trials, the higher the initial drop, the higher the potential energy will be at the top, and the higher the kinetic energy will be at the bottom. The more energy you have in the roller coaster in total, will make it more exciting to customers. Whats the difference between potential energy and kinetic energy? Well, potential energy is the energy stored in an object, and kinetic energy is the energy of movement. The total energy is the combined amount of potential and kinetic energy. At the top of the roller coaster, all of the energy will be potential energy, meaning potential energy will be the same amount as the total energy, and the kinetic energy would be zero because the roller coaster is not moving. At the bottom of the roller coaster, all of the energy will be kinetic energy, and the potential energy will be zero, meaning the kinetic energy and total energy will be the same. Going down the drop, the kinetic energy will slowly increase and the potential energy will slowly decrease, but the total energy will always stay the same throughout the entire ride. This transfer of energy happens because as the roller coaster is put in motion, the potential energy changes into kinetic energy. This can be explained using the law of conservation of energy, which states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, meaning the energy has to be transferred into different types of energy. When adding hills to your ride, I must inform you that it is in your best interest the hills be shorter than the initial drop. When the hills are equal to or larger than the initial drop, the amount of energy required to get over the drop is more than the total energy created by the initial drop.If this happens the cart will not make it to the end of the ride. I also can suggest this far into my experiments that the cart be as heavy as we can make it be safely. Mass and both potential and kinetic energy each have a direct relationship, meaning that when one increases the other increases, and when one decreases the other decreases. The heavier you make the cart, the more energy will be produced from the initial drop, again making the ride more exciting. This concludes my findings so far.
I will report back again soon, and i hope my findings so far satisfy you!