After reviewing my research, I have come to a few helpful conclusions that will be beneficial in designing the most fun (and safe) roller coaster for the Gonzales family amusement park. First of all, I would recommend that the Gonzales family create a roller coaster with the maximum height for the initial drop. I would recommend this because my research has shown that as the initial drop height increases, so does the amount of potential energy at the top of the drop, and the amount of the kinetic energy at the bottom of the drop. For example, when the initial drop height was 2 meters, the amount of PE at the top was 984 Joules and the amount of KE at the bottom of the initial drop was 983 Joules. However, when the initial drop height was 5 meters, the amount of PE at the top was 2460 Joules and the amount of KE at the bottom was 2549 Joules. This data shows the direct relationship that drop height, PE and KE have. When the drop height goes up, so does the amount of potential and kinetic energy. Throughout the entire roller coaster, the amount of total energy always remains constant. Without friction, we can calculate TE by adding the PE and KE. Even as we changed the drop height or the mass of the car, the amount of total energy at the top and bottom were always constant throughout the entire ride. When the mass of the car was 40 kg, the amount of total energy at the start was 1954 Joules (1954 Joules of PE + 0 Joules of KE = 1954 Joules of TE). When the car made it to the bottom of the drop, the total energy in the system was still 1954, however the PE had been transferred to KE. It was now 1 Joule of PE + 1953 Joules of KE = 1954 Joules of TE. This energy transformation can be explained by the law of conservation of energy which states that energy can not be created nor destroyed in a closed system, such as our roller coaster. As our roller coaster makes it down the initial drop, each Joule of PE "lost" is a Joule of KE "gained". This loss and gain though is really energy transformation from PE to KE. As the car goes down the drop the car gains more KE, eventually finishing the drop with either an amount of energy equal to the amount of PE started with or +/- 1 Joule. When the car started at 3 meters, there were 1476 Joules of PE at the top of the initial drop and 1475 Joules of KE at the bottom of the initial drop. However, initial drop height is not the only way to increase the amount of total energy in the system. As the mass increases, so does the amount of TE in the system. For example, when the car was 40 kg there was only 1954 Joules of TE in the system, but when the car was 60 kg, there was 2930 Joules of TE in the system. Lastly, I would like to highlight that in order for the car to make it over the hill, the initial drop must be greater than the hill height. My data supports this because when the initial drop height was 4 m and the hill height was 2 m, the car did make it over the hill. However, when the initial drop height was 4 m and the hill height was 4 m the car did not make it over the hill. In conclusion, in order to provide guests with the best and most safe experience, the initial drop height should be as tall as possible and greater than the height of the hill. The mass of the car should also be as large as possible. 