The higher the height of the drop the more potential energy the cart has on the top of the hill and initial drop and the more kinetic energy that the cart has on the bottom of the hill and initial drop. We can see this at play, when you compare the data from the initial drop the height was two meters. The potential energy at the top was nine hundred and seventy-nine Joules while the kinetic energy at the bottom was the same nine hundred and seventy-nine Joules in a friction-less environment. When the release height was five meters the potential energy at the top of the initial drop was two thousand, four hundred forty-seven Joules the kinetic energy was the same at two thousand, four hundred forty-seven Joules. To find the total energy you would have to add the potential energy and the kinetic energy. When the cart is going down the initial drop the potential energy transfers to kinetic energy and the kinetic energy transfers to potential energy when it is going up the hill. While that is going on the total energy does not change because of the law of Conservation of Energy. The data shows this when the cart is at the top of the initial drop with a height of four the potential energy is one thousand, nine hundred fifty-nine Joules and the kinetic energy is zero. when the cart goes down the initial drop and goes up to the top of the hill the potential energy turns to nine hundred and seventy-nine and the kinetic energy is the same at nine hundred and seventy-nine Joules.The law of Conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed only converted from one type of energy to another. it sometimes seems like there is energy missing but it is just transferred to a different type of energy for example when the initial drop height was five. The potential energy at the top was two thousand, four hundred forty-three and the kinetic energy was zero on top with the addition of friction. The kinetic energy of the cart was one thousand, nine hundred thirty-nine when it was at the bottom it looks like it lost energy sense there is just one for potential energy but that "missing" energy turned into another type of energy thermal energy. Five Hundred Three joules of energy transferred to thermal energy. In order for the roller coaster cart to make it to the end of the ride the drop height or the initial drop needs to be greater than the hill height to have enough energy to make it up and over the hill. If the drop height was four meters and the hill height was five meters. Which is taller than the initial drop car did not make it to the end of the ride but when the drop height was still four. The hill height changed to two the cart had enough energy to make it all the way to the end. The hill height needs to be at least one joule away from the initial drop to make it over the hill. The larger the car mass the greater the total energy which is the sum of both kinetic and potential energy. When the car mass was forty kilograms the potential energy at the top of the drop was one thousand, seven hundred sixty-one and kinetic at the bottom was also one thousand, seven hundred sixty-one. When the car has a mass of sixty kilograms the potential energy was two thousand six hundred forty-two at the top and kinetic energy of two thousand six hundred forty-two at the bottom. That twenty kilogram difference made a large difference of eight hundred and one joules of energy.