I think for the initial drop height we should do 5 meters. I think this because with a higher initial drop it increases the potential energy at the top of the hill, being 2443 J. Rather than having an initial drop height of like 2 meters which would create a decrease in potential energy at the top of the hill. So with a higher height  you get more potential energy to be used in the roller coaster. Also with 5 meters as an initial drop it makes us have more total energy to be transferred entirely to kinetic energy plus the potential energy. Due to the fact we are in an environment without friction. Meaning at the bottom of the hill we will have more kinetic energy for the roller coaster. But going down the roller coaster the potential will start to become kinetic energy because we are going down the energy. Also as the roller coaster goes down the hill lots of energy is converted. For example when you start at the top of the hill the potential energy is the same as the total energy. Then as you start to go down the hill the potential energy is converted to the kinetic energy, but the total energy never changes. Then once you get to the bottom of the hill all of the energy is kinetic energy, but the total energy is still the same. This is because of the Law of Conservation of Energy which says no energy can be destroyed.
Secondly for the hill height I think we should do 4 meters. Using 4 meters we are successfully able to go over the hill without going backwards, and we are able to have some potential energy at the top of the hill combined with some kinetic energy. The reason we are able to do 4 meters is because it is a smaller height than the initial drop. Meaning the total energy will allow us to get over the hill, because there is enough kinetic energy to allow it to go over the hill. 
Finally for the mass I think that we should do 60 kg. I think this because we want more speed and the data shows that if we have more kg for the mass the more potential, kinetic, and total energy we get. For example when we use 60 kg the amount of potential energy at the top of the hill and the amount of kinetic energy at the bottom is a large number. Rather than if we were to use a number like 50 kg which would create less total energy. So the bottom line is the more mass there is the more potential energy there is, meaning more total energy, making for a more fun ride.