Dear the Gonzalez family, I think you should do some of these things for your roller coaster for the people to like it. First, I think your initial drop height should be the highest it can because then the higher the initial drop is, the more potential energy there will be. For example, when I made my initial drop height a 5, the PE was almost double the PE with an initial drop height of 2. The PE at the top of the drop relates to the KE because the KE will be the same amount of PE at the top of the drop. This is because energy cannot be created nor destroyed as stated by the Law of Conservation of Energy. This means that the PE at the top of the initial drop will indicate how much total energy there is at the end of the ride. For example, if the PE at the top of the initial drop is 2000, when the coaster car goes down the hill the PE will go to 0 and the KE will go to 2000 and the TE will be 2000. The total energy will always be the same amount as the PE at the top of the drop even if there isn't any PE at the bottom because the PE turns into KE at the bottom of the drop. The transformation of energy is all the PE at the top of the drop will transform into KE as the car is going down the drop. I would recommend making the hill height as close to the initial drop height without going over. This is important because the car will have just enough kinetic energy to make it over the hill without getting stuck. For example if your drop height is 4 you would wanna make your hill height 3.99 or lower. This will add fun to the ride because the car will go up the hill slowly and then the car will speed up with a lot of velocity as it goes down the hill. Finally, I think you should go with a mass around 50 because the more mass you add, the more PE there will be at the top of the drop and there will also be more KE at the bottom of the drop. A trial from my data shows  this because when I made my car's mass 50, the car's potential energy was almost 300 joules more than a car with a mass of 44. The drop height was the same for both trials. In conclusion,  I think the Gonzales family should make these changes to their roller coaster for the best riding experience and the most fun for customers.