The drop height of my roller coaster design is 5 meters. This is because the relationship between height and PE is direct, and when the height of the drop increases the TE increases. For example, when I tested the drop height of 2m, the PE at the top was 977 Joules at the top. When I increased the height to 5m, the PE increased to 2443 Joules. Both PE and TE increase when the height increased. As for KE, when I test the drop height of 2m, the KE at the bottom was 977 Joules. When I increased the height to 5m, the KE increased to 2442 Joules. Next, I noticed that PE+KE=TE. For instance, when my height was set to 2m, the TE was 977, the KE at the bottom was 977, but the PE was 0. When my height was set to 5m, the TE was 2443, meaning the KE at the bottom was 2442, and the PE is 1. This shows that the more PE and KE, the more TE you have. I will be making the height of my hill 3m. One reason I am doing this is because as the car goes down the roller coaster, the KE increases but the PE decreases. This is an example of an inverse relationship. At the top of the drop, all the energy is PE, but as the car moves down the KE rises just as much as the PE falls. For example, when my height was 5m for the drop, the PE started as 2443, and the KE as 0. When my car went down the drop, the PE lowered to 0, but the KE rose to 2443. No matter what, the TE remained the same throughout the entire trial. The TE will continue to remain the same as long as the variables are kept consistent during that trial. This data also shows us how energy is transformed into PE to KE as the roller coaster goes along the track, but no energy is ever lost. When the TE remained as 2443 during the trial for 5m drop, this proves the Law of Conservation of Energy. No energy is lost or created, it is just transferred into PE or KE. Another reason I will set my hill height as 3m is so the car will have enough energy to make it over the hill. As I tested relationships between height of the drop and hill, the only trial that successfully made it to the end was when the hill height was lower than the drop height. For instance, when the drop height was 3.5m, the car only made it to the end when the hill height was 2m. When the hill was 5m or 3.5m, the car did not make it to the end. So that is why my drop height will be 5m and my hill height will be 3m, since the hill height is less than my drop height. Lastly, I want the mass of the car to be pretty high because the more mass you have, the more TE you have. For instance, when I had 40kg as my mass, my PE at the top was 1955. When I increased the mass to 60kg, my PE increased to 2933. I want to make sure I have enough energy to make it to the end and increasing mass will increase the energy, including both KE at the bottom and PE at the top.
