One recommendation I want to make to the Gonzales family is to have the initial drop height be 5 meters, so that the coaster car will have enough energy to safely make it through the entire ride. This is because height and energy have a direct relationship, meaning when one goes up the other does too. My data shows this because when the drop height was 5 m, the PE was 2,688 J, but when I decreased the initial drop height to 4 meters, the PE decreased to 2,150 J. You want to make sure you have enough energy for the whole ride. This means that you want to have a large TE, or total energy, which is the sum of the PE and KE, so the car can make it all the way through the ride. One way to have more energy is to increase the mass of the coaster car, because like height and energy, mass and energy also have a direct relationship. This is seen in my data because when my car mass was 60 kg, the TE was 2,934 J, but when I decreased the mass of the car to 50 kg, the TE was 2,445 J. One thing to be aware of is how PE and KE can convert from one to the other as the car is moving. PE will be greater when there is more height and KE will be greater when there is more motion. The energy can convert, or transform, from one energy type to another because according to the Law of Conservation of Energy, energy cannot be created nor destroyed, giving it no other option than to transform into a different type of energy. The last recommendation I have is to make the hill height less than the initial drop height so the car is able to safely make it up the hill. The reason this is needed is because if the heights of the hill and the initial drop are equal, the car won't have enough energy to make it up the hill, because energy can't be created. This is shown in my data because when I had a hill height of 4 m, the car had 529 J of KE, but when I decreased the hill height to 3 m, the car had 1068 J of KE. This shows that the greater the hill height, the less energy the car will have, meaning we want a low enough hill height for the energy to make it all the way up the hill safely. Those are my recommendations for what we should do with the roller coaster.