I would recommend a 5 m drop height, a 4 m hill, and a 60 kg car. I think a 5 m drop height would be ideal because it maximizes the amount of energy you can have in the system off of the drop. At only 3 m, the system only had 1466 J of potential energy, but at 5 m, the ride had 2443 J of potential energy. This means that at the bottom of the drop, the ride will have 2443 J of kinetic energy, meaning a 5 m drop also maximizes the amount of speed you can get at the bottom of the initial drop, making the ride exciting. This is true because height and potential energy have a direct relationship, as height is a variable in the equation for potential energy. When the height of the drop increases, the amount of potential energy the car has at the top of the drop increases. Potential energy and kinetic energy also have a direct relationship, so in turn, if the height increases the kinetic energy at the bottom of the drop also increases. I also suggest you have a 4 m hill in the ride. I chose this height because if the hill height is less than the initial drop, the car will make it over. This is true because if the amount of energy it takes to get over the hill is less than the amount of energy the car had at the initial drop, the car will make it over the hill. The 4 m hill also helps us maximize the height of a potential future loop, ensuring that the elements of the coaster can be as fun as possible while also making it to the end of the ride. In my tests, the 4 m hill had the most potential energy, which means it will also have the most kinetic energy at the bottom of the hill. This is explained by the law of conservation of energy, which states that energy within a system cannot be created or destroyed, just transformed into other forms of energy. The potential energy at the top of the hill is transformed into kinetic energy as it travels down the hill. The amount of kinetic and potential energy at any given time always add up to the amount of total energy in the system. This is a direct relationship, because during my trials, no matter where the car was, the total energy remained constant, and the kinetic energy and potential energy added up to the total energy. The total energy is also equal to the amount of potential energy the car has at the top of the initial drop. This is also a direct relationship. In my trials, a 2 m hill had 2443 J of energy, while a 4 m hill had 2448 J of potential energy. This is maximizing the speed the coaster can have while remaining safe and ensuring it gets to the end of the ride. The last suggestion I have is that we should have the coaster car be 60 kg. This weight is the maximum weight, meaning that we have the most energy possible in the system. This is true because mass and energy have a direct relationship. Both kinetic and potential energy have mass as a positive variable in their given equations, meaning that when mass increases, the amount of energy in the system increases as well. In my data, I found that a 50 kg car only solicited 2443 J of energy in the system, while the 60 kg car I am suggesting caused there to be a whopping 2932 J of energy in the system. With a 60 kg car, we are maximizing the amount of speed the coaster can have, while still ensuring the car gets to the end of the ride. I am sure the car will get to the end of the ride, because according to the law of conservation of energy, if the hill height is less than the initial drop, the car will make it to the end of the ride.