The height of the drop effects how far the roller coaster will go.  The potential energy at the top of the hill will determine if the roller coaster will make it to the end.  The more potential energy there is the more possibility there is the roller coaster car has enough energy to make it to the end.  Also how much kinetic energy was used to get the roller coaster to the bottom.  If there is more kinetic energy than the potential energy you may not make it to the bottom.  Also if there is a hill you wont make it over the hill if the kinetic energy is greater than the potential energy.  This is because if the kinetic energy is to big there wont be enough potential energy to make the roller coaster to the end.  Once the roller coaster goes down the hill the potential energy stays the same.  But the kinetic energy usually goes way up and sometimes is almost as much as the potential energy.  The total energy stays the same as the initial energy at the top of the hill because the energy changed but went back to the initial energy that was at the initial drop.  This is because the potential and kinetic energy eventually form together and end up as the same as the initial drop total.   Also the law of conservation of energy is involved with how fast the roller coaster is going and what the mass of the roller coaster is affects how fast the roller coaster will go.  The drop height of the roller coaster and the hill height are significantly different but the lower the hill height the more likely the roller coaster will make it over the hill.  But the higher the initial drop the more likely the roller coaster will make it over the hill.  This is because the coaster car has a lot of energy to be able to push the car over the hill.  At this stage the potential and kinetic energy have formed together to make the car go faster and over the hill.  The mass of the coaster car affects the sped of the roller coaster car.  This affects the kinetic energy and how fast everything moves.  The mass also affects the potential energy when the coaster car isn't moving and how fast the coaster car will go over the initial drop.  The car we created will be exciting and make it to the end because  if the potential energy is for example 1952 and the hill is 981 the coaster car will definitely make it over the hill and to the end safely.  As long as the hill height and initial drop aren't the same roller coaster will make it to the end without getting stuck.