Dear Gonzales family, 
Our science team has been building an exciting and functional roller coaster for your theme park. While building, we learned about certain requirements of the roller coaster so it would make it to the end of the ride without stopping. A correct initial drop is essential for the roller coaster's success in functionality. The height of the initial hill is the most important thing when creating a roller coaster that will cause enough energy in the car to get its riders to the end. Based on our data, if the hill height of the first drop is the same or less than the second hill's height, the car will not reach the end. We realized this from what these bits of data showed us: 
Drop height: 2.5  Hill height: 2.25 
PE at the initial drop was 1224 J and there was 0 J of kinetic,  and at the top of the second hill, it was 1098 J of potential energy with 126 J of kinetic energy. The car made it to the end.
This data shows that the car successfully gets to the end of the track when the second hill height is not as high as the initial drop height. We then decided to try out the experiment with a hill height that matched the initial drop height. This is the data that we got.
Drop height: 2.5 Hill height: 2.5
PE at the initial drop was 1224 J of energy. At the top of the hill, there was 1224 J of potential energy and 0 J of kinetic energy, meaning the car had stopped moving. This means that the car would not make it to the end of the ride, but just go back down the hill backward, as gravity pulled the car back down towards the center of the earth.
Looking at this, we made a hypothesis that the car would also not be able to make it to the end of the ride if the hill height was higher than the initial drop, and decided to test our hypothesis. This is the data from our final test on hill height.
Drop height: 2.5 Hill height: 5 
PE at the top of the initial drop was 1224 J of energy, with no J of kinetic energy. The car made it 3/4 of the way up the hill before the energy was 1224 J and couldn't go up anymore, causing the car to go back down the hill again. This confirmed our hypothesis about hill height, and we have concluded that the hill height has to be smaller than the initial drop height. We believe that the conservation of energy supports our evidence and conclusion, as it states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. Since this law is true, it makes sense that right before the energy caps out at the amount of energy that the initial drop height had the car goes back down the hill. 
We have noticed with all of these experiments that the total energy has correlated with the initial drop height's potential energy. Here are some examples of this in our data. 
PE at the initial drop was 1228 J, and the total energy at the end of the experiment was 1228 J. 
We thought that this was interesting and as we continued to do more experiments we noticed a pattern. 
On our second test, the PE at the initial drop was 1224 J of energy, and then at the end of the ride, there was 1224 J of total energy. Our final experiment continued to confirm our beliefs that the total energy was equal to the potential energy of the initial drop. The PE at the initial drop was 1224 and the total energy at the end of the experiment was 1224 J of energy. We believe that the cause of the total energy matching the potential energy at the top of the initial drop is the law of conservation of energy. The law states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, so it makes sense that the initial energy at the beginning of the ride and the total amount of energy at the end of the ride or experiment is the same in value.
