Hello, our roller coaster will be the most fun and safe. The reason why is because there is a drop at the start with a high amount of height, this drop contains a lot of potential energy because there is a high amount of energy with potential to drop. And with our research this potential energy converts to kinetic energy as the cart goes down. And since our coaster contains a lot of potential energy at the start it will reach a high kinetic energy or speed as it goes down. But the speed it reaches can not exceed the energy at the start if you do not use energy from external sources, this is because the Law of Conservation of Energy states that we cannot create or destroy energy. So we cannot add or remove energy from the total energy amount. And the roller-coaster.
will make it over the loops and hills because, when you go down you gain potential energy and when you go up you use potential energy, so if we go down the initial drop we gain 10 joules of potential energy. But when we go up the hill and over we use 6 joules of kinetic energy then we go down the hill and get that kinetic energy back. So we keep the total energy, but there is no friction. On earth there are 9.8 Newtons of gravity, and that gravity pulls things to the center of the earth, which will pull the cart down on the track. And when that happens there is friction and the rubbing of the atoms converts the kinetic energy to thermal energy, and we will not convert that back to kinetic energy. So we will need to increase the initial drop a lot, because we can't make it if we do not have enough speed or kinetic energy. Because there is a limited amount of energy in the roller-coaster that we can use because we have to convert already existing energy into kinetic energy, because we cannot exceed the total energy.
When we go down a hill we gain energy, but it requires that same amount to climb it again. So if you gain 100 joules of kinetic energy, that is the max amount of energy you can use to get to the top of the hill. But if you want to get over the hill, you need to use a bit more because 100 joules is just enough to climb the hill. It is not enough to get over the hill. Another problem is if the hill height is higher than the initial drop height, for example. You go down a hill and gain 100 joules of kinetic energy at the bottom, there is a high hill that takes 150 joules to climb. If the cart only has 100 joules it cannot climb or get over the hill that takes 150 joules.