I believe that the Gonzales Faimly should buy my roller coster becuause I have lots of evidance and research on roller costers. I think the drop height of the roller coster should be 5 meters.This is becuase the higher the roller coster is the more energy the car will have making the ride more fun. For example, when I tested the drop height of 2 meters, the potential energy was 977 joules. When I increased the drop height to 5 meters, the potential energy increased to 2443 joules. As the car goes down the roller coster the potential energy goes down then what it started with. The kinetic energy goes up from where it started (0). The kinetic energy and the potential energy always add up to be the total energy. For example in trail 2 the potential energy at the top of the hill was 1710 and the kinectic energy was 0 and when you add those you get the total energy of 1710. At the bottom of the hill the potential energy was 1 and the kinetic energy was 1709 adding up to 1710 the total energy. The more mass there is on the coster car the faster and more energy the car will have, in my first trial for mass and energy the mass was 40 and the total energy was 1955. In trail 2 the mass was 50 and the total energy was 2460. As the mass goes up the kenetic and potential energy also go up. The law of conservation of mass states that energy cannot be created or destroyed but it can be transfered from kinetic to potential energy. In all my trials you can see how the potential energy starts off big and then it drops down to either 1 or 0. The kinetic energy starts off as 0 and ends as a bigger number. The hill height must be lower/shorter then the intial drop height. If the hill height is bigger then the intial drop height then the roller coaster won't make it to the end of the track. For example if the hill height is 3 meter and the intial drop height is 5 meters then the roller coster won't have enough energy to make it to the end. All of this reasearch shows that my roller coster is the best and the most fun roller coster to buy! 