I would recommend certain heights and weights from my data. The first thing I would recommend to them would be the release height of the initial drop. For this, I would tell them to use an initial drop height of 5 meters. I tell them this height because it has the highest potential energy from my lab evaluations. PE and height have a direct relationship so raising the height raises the Potential Energy. Also, the larger the drop the more KE is at the bottom of the drop. 
PE and KE always equal the total energy. The total energy never changes throughout the whole ride, and according to the Law of Conservation of Energy, energy can't be created or destroyed. They equal the total energy because KE and PE have an inverse relationship. This is proven when at the top of the initial drop and the KE was 0J and the PE was almost exactly the same as the total energy. At the bottom of the hill, it was the exact opposite, and there was more KE than there was PE For example, in one of my labs the total energy was 2443. The PE and the top of the initial drop were 2443, and the KE was 0. Then at the bottom, the PE was 1 and the KE was 2442. Put together they equal the total energy of 2443. The total energy is created with the KE and PE together, and the friction is 0.
Because energy cannot be created or destroyed, when there was 2443J of PE, it converted into heat energy. So then at the bottom of the hill, there was way fewer J's of PE and there was more KE. The relationship between KE and PE is that they can transform into one another. In my labs, I noticed that at the top of the initial drop, the was 0J of KE, and in this certain experiment there were 2443 J's of PE. When they reached the bottom, it was the opposite, and there was 1J of PE and 2442 J of KE. And because Energy cannot be created or destroyed, it means they convert to one another through Heat.
The initial drop should be greater than the hill height because my data shows that when the initial drop is higher than the hill, or the same, more TE is produced. When the hill is higher, the car can't even make it through the course. I also think that the best car mass would be 60kg. When it was at 60kg, the most total energy was produced. The relationship between KE and Height is direct, and so is PE and Height. When you increase the Height, the KE and PE increase, by you don't want it to go beyond what the Initial drop is otherwise the car won't make it through the course. The relationship between KE and Mass and PE and Mass are direct, so by increasing the Mass, you increase the KE and PE, which increases the TE because of KE+PE=TE.
