The drop height of my roller coaster will be 4 meters. This drop height will allow the roller coaster to have lots of potential energy at the top of the drop, which will help it keep going throughout the whole ride. This will happen because the potential energy turns into kinetic energy, which makes the car move. For example, when I tested a drop height of 4 meters in the simulation, the car had 1876 Joules of potential energy at the top, which means it also had 1876 Joules of kinetic energy at the bottom. If we compare this to a drop height of 2, which had 938 Joules of potential energy at the top and kinetic energy at the bottom, we can see that the drop height of 4 meters had much more energy. This higher drop height will also allow the car to accelerate for a longer time, making it go faster.
The relationship between potential, kinetic, and total energy is that the potential and kinetic energy always add up to the total energy at any point throughout the ride. This means that there will always be the same amount of total energy, and so the ride will never stop unless it gets stopped by something else. 
At the top of the hill, the car will only have potential energy because it is not moving. As the car moves down the hill, the potential energy starts turning into kinetic energy, at the same rate. If kinetic energy increases by 10 Joules, then potential energy decreases by 10 Joules. At the bottom of the hill, the car will have no height, and therefore it will have no potential energy, just kinetic energy. This also means that when the car is at the very middle (half the height of the original drop), it will have the same amount of kinetic and potential energy. 
The Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. The energy doesn't disappear, it just changes form. For example, at the top of the initial drop, there were 938 Joules of potential energy and 0 Joules of kinetic energy. At the bottom of the hill, there will 938 Joules of kinetic energy and 0 Joules of potential energy. This shows that the energy changed from potential to kinetic, but isn't completely gone.
My hill height will be 3 meters. This is because the hill height needs to be lower than the initial drop height. If the hill height was larger than the initial drop height, the car would not have enough energy to get up the hill. when I tested a drop height of 3 meters and a hill height of 4 meters, the car did not make it up the hill and just fell back down instead. With a drop height of 4 meters and a hill height of 3 meters, the drop will be larger than the hill, but the hill will still be big enough to be fun and exciting. 
The relationship between mass, kinetic energy, and potential energy is that objects with a greater mass have more potential energy, and therefore have more kinetic energy as the energy is converted. My car's mass is going to be 50 kg because then the car will have enough energy to make it through the ride but it won't have too much mass.
