After running a number of experiments, we have picked up a lot of data. We will be able to provide you with some new ideas for inventing your new roller coaster. We have noticed after testing that the higher the initial drop you will have the more significant amount of potential energy at the top. Once the car goes down, the kinetic energy will be larger as the potential will be lower. As the vehicle makes its way down the drop the potential energy will decrease as the kinetic energy will increase. The more significant initial drop that you choose to go with, will make the outcome of the kinetic energy and potential energy varies. If you start with a high initial drop there is so much more energy that it already pushed onto the car when it goes down that drop. With the initial drop being larger this allows way more energy to pass through the vehicle as it makes its way down the track. The more air and height that the car can get, will increase the amount of energy that the vehicle will have or can have. If you are going to have a larger mass of a vehicle, I believe that you should go with a greater drop. There is so much more mass the vehicle will have less energy and it will be hard for the car to continue without much energy. The total energy comes from the outcome of the potential energy. If there was a higher drop height and higher potential energy outcome this would make the total energy become larger. The total energy is based on the largest amount of potential energy that was reached throughout the experiment. The way that the potential and kinetic energy change from beginning to end is because of the Law of Conservation of Energy. This law allows the energy to pass from one another which causes one to have a greater amount as the other has a lighter amount. For example, at the start of the coaster, the potential energy is at a high point but as soon as the car makes its way down the track the potential energy decreases as the kinetic increases. This is the Law of Conservation of Energy that is allowing that energy to pass through. Now the relationship between the drop height and the hill height. If the drop height is 4 the hill height will need to be lower than 4 otherwise the car will not have enough energy to get up and over the hill. Based on my data I tested my car with a drop height of 4 and a hill height of 3.9. Even with the hill height being .1 lower it still can make a difference on the car having enough energy to get up and over it. If the initial drop height was 3 the hill height is not going to be able to be 3.25 otherwise the car will fail to make it to the end of the track. When there is a lower amount of space that the vehicle can gain its energy it is hard for it to make it over a hill. If you are going to want a larger hill you will need to have a larger initial drop as well for your coaster to reach its accomplishment. The last recommendation that I have is if you have a larger mass the potential energy and kinetic energy are going to be a lot greater. The more mass will also have less energy, so you are going to have to contain a larger initial drop height and a lower hill height so the car will make it to the end of your coaster. I hope some of my recommendations helped and can have an impact on your coaster. Good luck!