The higher the height of the drop the more PE the cart has on the top of the hill and initial drop and the more KE that the cart has on the bottom of the hill and initial drop. We can see this at play, when you compare the data from the initial drop when the height was 2 meters. In a frictionless environment the PE at the top was 979 Joules while the KE at the bottom was the same 979 Joules. When the release height was 5 meters the PE at the top of the initial drop was 2447 Joules the KE was the same at 2447 Joules. We can see when the initial drop height was 2 meters it was 1468 joules less than when the initial drop height was 5 meters. To find the total energy in a closed system you would have to add the types of energy in the system. At this moment we are only talking about three different types of energy PE, KE and thermal energy. When the cart is going down the initial drop the PE transfers to KE and the KE transfers to PE when it is going up the hill. While that is going on the total energy does not change because of the law of Conservation of Energy. The data shows that when the cart is at the top of the initial drop with a height of 4 the PE is 1959 Joules and the kinetic energy is 0. When the cart goes down the initial drop and goes up to the top of the hill the PE turns to 979 and the KE is the same at 979 Joules.PE plus KE equals total energy so 979 plus 979 equals 1958 but should at up to 1959. Since there is no thermal energy it will stay at a zero the whole time because of the lack of friction. The law of Conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed only converted from one type of energy to another. it sometimes seems like there is energy missing but it is just transferred to a different type of energy for example when the initial drop height was 5. The potential energy at the top was 2453 and the KE was 0 on top with the addition of friction. The KE of the cart was 1939 when it was at the bottom. It looks like it lost energy sense there is just one for PE but that "missing" energy turned into another type of energy, thermal energy. 503 joules of energy transferred to thermal energy. In order for the roller coaster cart to make it to the end of the ride the drop height or the initial drop needs to be greater than the hill height to have enough energy to make it up and over the hill. If the drop height was 4 meters and the hill height was 5 meters. Which is taller than the initial drop. The car did not make it to the end of the ride when the height was 5 meters but did when the drop height was 4. The hill height needs to be at least 1 meter less than the initial drop to make it over the hill. When you compare the KE on the top of the hill at 2.80 meters tall and 4 meters tall we have a difference of 595 joules of KE(Motion) the cart uses to get down the hill. The 2.80 meter tall hill had 595 Joules more KE than the 4 meter hill. The larger the car mass the greater the total energy which is the sum of both KE and PE. When the car mass was 40 kilograms the potential energy at the top of the drop was 1761 and KE at the bottom was also 1761. When the car has a mass of 60 kilograms the potential energy was 2642 at the top and KE of 2642 at the bottom. That 20 kilogram difference made a large difference of 801 joules of energy.