For my draft of my roller coaster, I would like the initial drop's height to be 5 meters. I want the initial drop to be 5 meters because the higher up the roller coaster is, the more potential and kinetic energy my roller coaster will have. Potential energy and height have a direct relationship. When the height increases, the potential energy also increases. When the height decreases, the potential energy decreases. The same applies to kinetic energy. When the height increases, kinetic energy increases. When my car is at the top of the roller coaster 5 meters high, it will have the greatest possible amount of potential energy. As the car is rolling down the roller coaster from 5 meters high, it will have the greatest amount of kinetic energy. Regarding the weight of my car, I would like it to weigh 60 kg. I want it to weigh 60 kg. because the greater the mass is, the more potential and kinetic energy my car will have. Mass and potential energy have a direct relationship. When the mass increases, the potential energy increases. When the mass decreases, the potential energy decreases. Kinetic energy also has a direct relationship with mass. When the mass increases, the kinetic energy increases. When the mass decreases, the kinetic energy decreases. As the car is resting at the top of the initial drop, its potential energy is the greatest possible amount of potential energy. That means it will go farther and faster. As the car is traveling down the drop, its kinetic energy is the greatest possible amount of kinetic energy. It will go faster and farther. I would like the 2nd hill of my roller coaster to be 4.5 meters tall. I want this for my roller coaster because the hill needs to be shorter than the initial drop, but I want my roller coaster to be fun and exciting. The 2nd hill cannot be greater or taller than the initial drop because the law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. My roller coaster is not creating energy, just using the energy from the top of the hill. The potential energy at the top of the hill will be all the energy I can use. Energy is not created or destroyed as the law states. It is just transferred between different types of energy. For example, at the start of my roller coaster, the energy it has is potential energy. As it travels down the initial drop, the potential energy will transform into kinetic energy. It will also turn into thermal energy which will cause friction. Friction will slow the roller coaster down unless it is a frictionless simulation. Since the energy is not being added or created, it's transferred between different types of energy. As the roller coaster is coming up the 2nd hill, it will start to slow down and try to go down the next hill. It can't make it over the hill if the hill is 5 meters tall. It's using all of the energy from the potential at the top of the hill to make it over the next one. Then it will use its potential energy at the top of the 2nd hill and make its way down the hill. Energy can't be created or destroyed, so even though it seems like energy is added when you go up another hill, it's not. The roller coaster will be using its total energy to make its way throughout the roller coaster. At the start of the simulation, I set the height to 5 meters and had the car's mass at 60 kg. The total energy was 2,932 Joules. That was all the energy the roller coaster could use for the remainder of the ride. As it traveled down the hill, the potential energy transferred into kinetic energy. The roller coaster was using the total energy and switching it between different types of energy so that the roller coaster would move. These are the designs I want for my roller coaster. 