Dear Gonzales family, 

I have made sure that your ride is enjoyable and makes it to the end. Firstly, the initial drop height should be 4.5 meters. This is so it's tall enough to be fun, but also so that the hills and loops are beneath it. The higher the initial drop is, the more potential energy there is. The total energy for the entirety of the ride is the amount of potential energy at the top of the initial drop, and the kinetic energy at the bottom of it. This is because of the Law of Conservation of Energy, which means that energy can only be converted, not created or destroyed. In other words, the total energy stays the same throughout. The initial drop height and the potential/kinetic/total energy have a direct relationship, so when the height increases, the amount of Joules does as well. For example, when the release height was  4 meters, the potential energy at the peak was 1,955 Joules. The kinetic energy at the bottom was the same. However, When the release height was 4.5 meters, the total energy was 2,199 Joules. Potential and kinetic energy have an inverse relationship though, because to add up to the set total energy, one increases as the other decreases. The total energy stays the same throughout the entirety of the ride. When the car is at the top of the drop, all of its energy is potential. As it goes down, it gets converted into kinetic. At the bottom, all of the energy is kinetic. As for the hill, data says all hills on the ride has to be less than the initial drop height. Otherwise, it wouldn't make it over. We only have the set amount of total energy we had at the top of the drop for the rest of the ride, but to make it over a taller hill, it would need more energy than we have. I've decided the best height for a hill would be 3 meters. The mass of the car and the amount of energy is present during the ride also have a direct relationship, meaning when one increases, so does the other. Data to support this includes when the mass is 50 kilograms, then the total energy is 2,199 Joules. But when the mass is 60 kilograms, the energy increases to 2,639 Joules. The initial drop height stayed the same throughout these experiments, so we know the more mass the car has, the more energy the ride has. I believe that 54 kilograms is the best mass for your car to be, so that it picks up speed and energy, and is more enjoyable. I hope you take my thoughts into consideration. 