Dear Gonzales Family, After running multiple tests I believe your family can make changes from me and my group. First, The height of my initial drop was 1960 PE and 0 KE but when my rollercoaster went down the track the energies changed from Pe to Ke. The height and Pe have a relationship in that is when the higher your roller coaster is the more PE is created. In my data when it had a height of 5 it had a Pe of 2937 and with a height of 3.3, it had a PE of 1611.  This shows that when your release height is taller the more Pe you will have and the shorter the less it will have. Then the energies in my trials changed once hitting the bottom of the track making the Ke 1960 and pe 0 it was the opposite on the top of the hill. I started at 4m making the pe and Ke stays the same throughout the trials I took but the Ke and PE can always be different numbers on a different part of the track. The relationship between Pe, Ke, and total energy is the energy can all be added together to equal the total energy. The total energy is the amount of energy the whole ride has and the more total energy your ride has the faster your ride will go because the Total energy is PE and KE combined together.  So the more Pe and Ke your ride will have will make the amount of total energy at the end of the ride higher. As I saw in my data the changes in Pe and Ke when going down the hill is once the coaster starts moving the Pe and KE will both change. So when my cart is at the initial drop the Pe is 1960 and the Ke is 0 but once the cart gets kinetic energy it will go down and the energy will go all to Ke the opposite at the start. Energy Transformation and the law of conservation of energy are applied when the amount Pe and Ke are applied to different types of energies. Such as when you go down a hill with lots of energy you will not lose that energy the energy is just getting converted into a different energy or in this case converting to thermal energy.  If you put on friction it makes the energy not be lost but be conserved to different types of energy. So the less friction your family put on, the less energy conservation will have to be used, and your ride will go faster. My group and I also noticed that the hill height had to be lower than the initial drop so when my initial drop was 4 and the hill height of 4.5 my cart would not have enough Pe and Ke to make it up the hill. So your family will need to be aware of the heights and make sure the heights of the hills, loops, etc. Will has enough energy to make it up. The relationship between Mass, Ke, and Pe is that they all have important roles and your family needs to be controlling the right amount for each. Because the more mass you have for your ride the more Pe and Ke your cart will have. But on the flip side, your family needs to know not to add too much mass to where it is a safety concern. I hope these recommendations can help you guys in puttingwi a rollercoaster up soon.