From all the data and tests I have performed to design a safe and fun roller coaster, my recommendations would be the following along with the data and science behind our roller coaster. First of all, the initial drop height relates to the potential energy at the top of the drop and the kinetic energy we have at the bottom. According to my information, there is more potential and kinetic energy if we have a higher initial drop. Potential energy is found when multiplying mass x height x acceleration due to gravity and if we would increase one of the variables, like height for our initial drop it would also increase the other variables and give a greater amount of potential energy. To prove this, my data shows me that with a drop height of 3m, the potential energy at the top would be 1466 J and the kinetic energy at the bottom was 1465 J. But with a higher drop height of 5m, the potential energy at the top of the drop was 2443 J. With the kinetic energy of 2442 J at the bottom of the drop, a significant difference if we increase the height of the initial drop. There is a direct relationship between potential energy, kinetic energy, and total energy. You can easily find how much total energy you have by adding the amounts of potential and kinetic energy that you have. And the amount of total energy you have at the beginning of the ride will remain the same throughout the ride in a frictionless environment. The more total energy you have the more potential and kinetic energy you can have throughout your ride. Based on my information, as the car went down the initial drop the stored potential energy was transferred into kinetic energy. For example, during one test at the top of a 4m drop the potential energy was 1955 J, but was 1 J at the bottom. From that same drop height, the kinetic energy at the top was 0 J but was 1954 J at the bottom of the drop. This demonstrates that throughout the roller coaster ride potential energy is being converted into kinetic energy and kinetic energy is also converted into potential energy. According to the law of conservation of energy, no energy is created or lost when one form of energy is converted into another. So during the roller coaster ride, no energy is lost or made, but converted into a different kind of energy. There is a direct relationship between the initial drop height and the hill height. To support this, when I was gathering data I found that for the cart to have enough energy to get over the next hill, the drop height always had to be greater than the hill height. If the drop height and the hill were the same, the cart did not make it over the hill because it lacked enough energy to do so. So the initial drop height should be greater than the hill height so we can insure the cart makes it over the hill. Throughout my test and experiments, I have found that mass does not affect the total amount of potential energy or kinetic energy. As demonstrated we have used the data we have found and the science to create a safe and exciting roller coaster. 