Dear Gonzales Fam
My name is Caitlin and I have some recommendations to make the best roller coaster design. 
      To start the height of the drop relates to PE at the top because it is a direct relationship. At the top of the drop the PE is at its maximum well the KE is at 0. If you double the height, the PE at the top will double as well, and so on with tripling.  As you descent, the PE decreases well  the KE is increasing. Height also relates to KE at the bottom, KE is based  on speed and its mass so if it is higher up it will have a faster speed at the bottom. For example for PE; Trial 1 height was 2.5m and my PE was 1222.
     Second,  the relationships between PE, KE, and total energy, stays the same no matter the PE at the top with no friction or the KE at the bottom with no friction. The total energy in this case is equal to negative of the KE.  PE is doubled of negative KE which leads to the total energy. Total Energy on a roller coaster is the energy changing from potential to kinetic energy and back again many times over the course of a ride. 
   Changes in PE and KE during the drop are, when the car is at the top of the track it has all stored PE well the KE is at 0. When it is falling down the hill that stored PE is converting into KE. When the car hits the bottom it also turns into heat energy.  
    When people use energy it doesn't just disappear, instead it changes into one form of energy into another. The law conversation of energy states that energy is not created nor destroyed. Transformation states when one form of energy is transformed to another, no energy is destroyed in the process. Therefor, the energy there before is the same total energy before and after any transformation. 
    Drop height and hill height also have a relationship, well as the height increases the more velocity it is going to have on the drop. Meaning if you increase the drop height  the car will have a lot of velocity(speed) coming down the  and then going up the hill it will have KE energy getting it up the hill. But if the hill height is greater than than the drop height the car will not have enough energy to get up the hill.
   The relationships between KE, PE and mass is the faster the object moves the more KE it has so the more mass the object has the more KE is in it. KE is based on mass and PE is started  at the top of the hill and using the stored to convert it into KE makes goes faster which depends on mass.

Me and My team are excited to start this design with all this new information we have gathered! I hope this helped and hope to talk to soon. Contact us
Thank you,
Caitlin
