After running a number amount of data I have concluded a few things. The height of the drop determines the potential energy at the top. Potential energy is the stored energy in an object based on the placement.In one of my experiments I had a starting height at 3.00 meters the potential energy was 1464.Then when I went to 4.00 meters the potential energy was 1964 the potential energy went up 500 joules.  The potential energy at the top will always be the total amount of energy. Kinetic energy is the energy of motion the kinetic energy at the bottom will always be the total amount unless there is friction in the environment. Friction is almost like the brakes on a car. When you have friction in the environment the friction will create thermal energy or heat. If there is thermal energy you add that and the potential and kinetic energy together to get the maximum amount of energy or total energy. Since energy is neither created nor destroyed but transferred the amount of total energy will always stay the same unless you change a controlled variable. The relationship between potential and kinetic is very interesting. If you start on the initial drop you will have all potential energy. Then when you start to move the energy will shift over from one type of energy to another.  No matter what the total energy will never change unless you change your constant variable then the total energy will increase or decrease depending on the height or length. Energy always transforms into different types of energy depending on your constants. The law of conservation of energy states that energy can neither be created nor destroyed but can be transformed. When the energy transforms you use the equation potential+kinetic = the total amount of energy. According to my data for the cart to get over the entire track safely.  The initial drop has to be the tallest point in the roller coaster or the cart will not have the potential energy to safely make it throughout the roller coaster. Mass is also an important factor in building a safe roller coaster. When the mass is greater it will have more potential energy because the cart will have more inertia. But the cart will have less kinetic energy because the energy is getting used up quicker with more mass. Finally when you have a smaller drop height than a hill or loop the roller coaster will not be safe.This is why when we are building the roller coaster the height of each object such as a loop or hill has to be a little bit smaller than the last object otherwise the cart will lose kinetic energy and drop back down. This is why the hill height has to be smaller than the initial drop and the loop must be smaller than the hill and so on. My team and I have concluded in are simulations that the hill height has to be smaller than the initial drop but the loop must be smaller than the hill to make it back to the ground safely with no injuries. What makes my teams roller coaster fun is we start with a high altitude of an initial drop to make the roller coaster fun. But for safety measures the initial drop will go down but not straight down you will go up a hill and then down again into a loop that puts you upside down. Lastly you will end of with a flat surface as you slow down to make the ride fun but also as safe as possible to keep us the (experts) and the Gonzales in business. 
