Some recommendations I would make to the Gonzales family is that I would make the drop height 5m. This is because I will need the loops and hills to be smaller than the initial drop height because the conservation law of energy states that energy can't be created or destroyed. Also, the greater the initial drop the more PE there is at the top, and that energy will eventually transfer into KE at the bottom. For an example, when the initial drop was 3m, then the PE at the top was 1466J and the KE was 0J which equal 1466TE. Then at the bottom of the drop the PE was 1J and the KE was 1465J which has a TE of 1466J. This also shows that the PE and the KE combined will always equal the TE since the law of conservation of energy. Also, it shows that the TE stays the same throughout the whole ride because when the initial drop was 3m, then the  TE at the start was 1466J and at the bottom was also 1466J.  At the start of the drop, the PE is greater than the KE but when it is at the end of the drop, the KE was greater than the PE. For example, when the initial drop height was 4m then the PE was 1955J and the KE was 0J. Then at the bottom the PE was 1J and the KE was 1954J. This clearly shows that the PE did not get destroyed but it was transferred into the KE throughout the drop. After the initial drop of 5m, I would make the hill height 4m and then the second hill height 3m. I would do this because you can't have a hill height that is taller than the initial drop height because of the conservation law of energy. When I did a hill height of 3m an initial drop height of 4m the roller coaster made it over. Then when I did an initial drop height of 4m and the hill also 4m, then the roller coaster wouldn't make it over. The more mass the more PE at the top of the drop and the more KE at the bottom of the drop. When the car mass was 40kg then the PE at the top was 1956J and then the KE was 1954J at the bottom. Then when the car mass was 50kg the PE at the top was 2445J and the KE at the bottom was 2444J. This shows that the more mass the car has the more PE and KE. This simulation is obviously done without friction but if there was friction it would effect the amount of PE and KE between the top of the drop and the bottom of the drop. Some of the energy because of friction would be turned into thermal and sound energy.