Dear Gonzales Family, 

Throughout the trials that we have conducted we learned how PE, KE and TE are related. We learned how friction, the mass of the car, and the heights of the inital drop, and hills are also connected to the law of Conservation of Energy. 

In the first trial we were testing how the different heights of the initial drop effected the initial PE and the final KE. In the first trial that we conducted we started with a drop height of 5 meters. The total amount of PE at the top of the drop was 2444 Joules. At the end of this trial, the amount of KE that was left was 2444 Joules as well. In the area in which this trial took place, there was no friction. This taught us that if there is no friction, there is no change in the total energy from the begining of the trial and the end.  In other words this taught us that the intial PE and the final KE is the same when in a frictionless enviorment. 

Throughout all of the trials that we conducted, we were able to study the relationship between KE and PE as the cart proceeded down the intial drop. At the top of the intial drop the KE is 0 J and for this example we will say that the PE is 2444. As the cart begins down the track the PE begins to decrease. This is because PE is stored energy, and when the object is in motion the PE is transmitted into KE. KE is the energy of an objects movement. As the roller coaster cart proceeded down the track the KE began to increase. In the frictionless enviorments, no matter where the car is PE+KE=TE. The same rule is applied in enviorments with friction however you need to document the TE at the begining and the end so you can calculate the difference. We learned that this part was crucial so we could calculate what amount of energy was transferred into different types of energy. In this specific case, the energy that was "lost" in a trial was transmitted into thermal energy. 

The Law of Conservation states that energy cannot be created nor distroyed. This is because all energy is transferred into different types of energy and never disappears. We know that PE+KE=TE, so why does this apply? The formula states that PE+KE=KE so we can take the PE and KE and add them together at any point in our trials to get the total energy. In most cases the TE was more at the intial drop than it was at the end of the trial. This is because of friction. Friction will absorb some of that energy and transform it into other types of energy, a common example is thermal energy which is heat. Throughout the trials we can see that the energy transforms from the intial PE into the ending KE. For example in the trials we can see that the PE in the begining is 2444 J, and the KE is zero J. Then at the end of the trial there is 0 J of PE and 2444 J of KE. 

Another thing that we learned was that we need enough KE to get over the hills within the roller coaster. In order for this to work, the hill height needs to be shorter than the intial drop. We can prove that this works or doesn't work in our trials... When the intial drop height is 4 meters and the hill is also 4 meters, the car cannot make it over the hill. Our trial showcased this well because the PE at the begining was 1959 J, and the PE near the top of the hill was 1955 J. This was not enough force to get the cart up and over that hill. However on a different trial when the intial drop was 4 meters, the car made it over. This is because the hill was shorter. With a hill of 3.75 meters, the car was able to make it up and over the hill without an issue present.

The final thing that we learned was, when the cart is heavier, the potential energy is greater. Our data was able to prove this as well. We ran a trial with a 50 kg car, and the PE at the begining was 1958 joules. A different trial with a car with a mass of 60 kg had more PE. The PE of that car at the intial drop was 2360 joules. Thus, proves that the more mass an object has, the more PE it has as well.

I hope that this was helpful to the Gonzales family in planning and creating their new roller coaster.