The recommendations I would give the Gonzales family would be to make sure that the height of the initial drop to their roller coaster is a little higher than the hill after the initial drop. This is because there is enough total energy present during the entire ride, which all adds up within the initial drop's potential energy. When you are in motion on the roller coaster, all of the total energy (potential energy) turns into kinetic energy. Therefore, this is only when the coaster is moving. When the roller coaster is not moving, the kinetic energy will be zero. This means that total energy and potential energy are all the same at the top of the initial drop, and at the bottom. The relationship between potential and kinetic energy is that one converts into the other. The total energy is the same as the starting potential energy at the top of any initial drop. The energy transformation that will work for my team and would be great for any roller coaster is having enough energy built up at the start of your initial drop. Any momentum from the initial drop is converted into many different energies. The higher the initial drop is, the more energy is built up to go up and down the proceeding hill. Also, mass is a big part of making your roller coaster be in motion efficiently. Mass from my team's experiments had to be at a high rate in order for more energy to be able to be converted into other energies. Like Pe and Ke, the mass is a big part of the change from those two energies throughout the ride. With less mass, less energy is changing from Pe to Ke back to Pe. The highest amount of mass my team collected from our experiments was 60, which made our total energy the most out of all four of our experiments. It was 2356 total energy. The Law of Conservation of Energy and Energy Transformation relates to the roller coaster and plays a big part in it. Energy Transformation is the entire conversion process of potential energy to kinetic energy and The Law of Conservation of Energy is the total energy that is stored up because of the height of the initial drops, and the hills. The energy within these cannot be created nor destroyed, and will always stay within whatever is and is going to be put in motion. For example, If say my potential energy was 1960, then that is going to also be my total energy, meaning that the total energy is not going to change or transfer.