       It's important for the Gonzales family to consider the height of the initial drop because that height will affect the energy throughout the whole ride. Through a series of experiments my team and I found that the amount of potential energy (PE) at the height of the initial drop is increased the higher that initial drop is. Height affects PE because the amount of work put into an object to lift up to a high position increases the amount of energy in the system. For example, in one experiment the cart was placed on an initial drop at 2m high, and the PE was at 1224 joules, but when the height of the initial drop was increased to 5m, the PE was at 2447 joules. This shows that there is a clear increase in energy which will be needed for the whole ride and is key to making an exciting roller coaster.

     Understanding how PE, KE, and total energy (TE) are related is very important to the creation of this roller coaster as well. We know that at the height of the initial drop, there is no KE at all, this is because kinetic energy is "motion energy" meaning it is "created" when potential energy is transferred after it is released. We also know that once the cart is released at the height the PE begins to transfer/change into KE. The cart will then use KE to move up the next hill (transferring into PE as it works its way up) and then repeats (also as long as no friction is involved causing a transfer to thermal energy.) This cycle is important to understand and know to better understand why that initial drop affects how the cart moves up hills.

     Another key point that needs to be considered for this roller coaster is the transfer of potential energy (PE) and kinetic energy (KE,) as well as the Law of Conservation of Energy. This is important because we need to know and understand where the energy "goes" in certain situations and we need to understand that no energy is lost but instead is transferred into other types of energy. Through another series of experiments, we tested to see the change in PE to KE and to see if the total energy (TE) is different from the combination of the end PE and KE. For example, in one experiment we tested to see how both the mass and energy change and affect the cart. Our data showed that the amount of KE at the bottom of the drop could be different when compared to the PE at the initial height. We know that through the Law of Conservation of Energy energy cannot be created nor destroyed so, therefore, the energy did not just disappear, instead, it was transferred into another energy such as thermal energy in this case. Thermal energy is created when there is friction on an object, such as the possible friction on the track as the cart goes down.

     The last key point that should be understood to create the best roller coaster is the relation between the initial drop and hill heights. Through an experiment, we tested at what height of the hill after the initial drop the cart would and wouldn't go over. We got results that showed that as long as the hill was under the initial drop the cart would have enough energy to make it over. On the other hand, if the hill was the same height as the drop or was greater than the drop the cart would not make it over the hill. This relationship makes sense because the energy in the system cannot increase (or decrease) to allow that cart to make it over the hill at the same or greater height.

     The final key point that is important to the creation of this new roller coaster is the mass of the cart. We went through a series of experiments to test the relationship between mass and PE at the initial drop. For example, when the mass of the cart was 60kg, we found the PE to be 2349 joules, almost 1000 joules greater than the cart with a mass of 40kg. This is very important to know in order to create the most amount of energy in our roller coaster to make sure the cart gets to the end.

      