Over the course of the past few days, we have learned ways to optimize safety and of course the "fun factor" in a roller coaster. First, the initial drop. We learned that the potential energy the car has at the start of that drop will be the same as the total energy because the law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created nor destroyed. However, energy can transfer into new kinds of energy.  As the cart slowly begins its descent down the drop, its potential energy slowly transfers into kinetic energy. 

Similarly to that, we learned that the first hill that the cart goes over after the initial drop must be smaller than the initial drop so the cart has enough kinetic energy to make it over the top and continue down the track. For example, when the initial drop height was 4 meters tall, the cart had 2,348 joules of potential energy. when the hill height was also 4 meters, the cart didn't have enough kinetic energy to make it over. 

Another factor that comes into play regarding the overall speed of the cart is friction. The friction applies an opposite force to the cart which takes away its kinetic energy as it's moving and transfers it to thermal energy. Basically, this means friction slows the cart down so we need to make sure the initial drop height is taller than the hill height. 

Next is mass. We learned that the more mass the cart has, the more potential energy it possesses at the top of the initial drop. For example, when the mass of the cart was 40 kg, it had 1,563 joules of potential energy but when it was 60 kg, it had 2,346 joules of potential energy. This shows that if we have the cart at 60 kg, it will have more speed moving down the drop to ensure it can make it through the rest of the track because it will have higher potential energy which transfers into kinetic energy. 

Lastly, something that has to be in place for everything to work is total energy. The total energy the cart has throughout the coaster all depends on the potential energy at the start. Energy cannot be created nor destroyed so the total energy the cart has will always be the same as the potential energy at the start. Now, the potential energy can lower and transfer into thermal and kinetic energy, but if you add the joules of all kinds of energy, it will equal the total energy. 

To sum everything that has been stated so far, energy is not created nor destroyed, but can transfer into new kinds of energy, such as potential energy transferring into thermal and kinetic energy. Next, the initial drop height must be higher than the hill height to ensure that cart has enough energy to make it over. Next. the potential energy of the cart all depends on the height of the initial drop because potential energy is stored energy that increases due to an object's height. Next, the kinetic energy is energy that an object has due to its velocity. Lastly, the cart should weigh 60 kg so it has the highest amount of potential energy possible. 