My first recommendation for this roller coaster would be to have an initial drop height of 5 meters. This would lead to more potential energy before it drops, and therefore more kinetic energy at the bottom of the drop. I know this because when I tested a 4 meter drop, it had a potential energy of 2150 Joules at the top. Then when I tested a 5 meter drop, the potential energy at the top was 2688 Joules. Since the total energy is the sum of the kinetic and potential energy, that means having a higher drop will give the coaster more total energy. My data shows that on a 5 meter hill, the total energy was 2688 Joules, and the potential  energy at the top of the drop was also 2688 Joules. At the bottom of that drop,  there were 2687 Joules of kinetic energy, and 1 Joule of potential. This proves that the total energy is equal to the sum of the kinetic and potential energy. This happens because the Law of Conservation of Energy tells us that energy cannot be created or destroyed. So the roller coaster never loses any of it's total energy, it is simply passed between kinetic and potential energy. This is another reason why an initial drop height of 5 meters would be most beneficial to our roller coaster. Another recommendation I have is to have a hill height of 4 meters. I think this would be best for the roller coaster because the hill needs to be shorter than the initial drop in order for the cart to make it over. For example, when we tested a hill height of 5 meters, which is the same as the initial drop, the cart did not make it over the hill. But when we tested a hill height of 4 meters, the cart made it over the hill with 1964 Joules of potential energy at the top. This means it has enough potential energy to keep moving after the hill. My final recommendation is to have a cart wight a mass of 50 KG. More weight means that there will be more potential energy at the top of the drop, which leads to more total energy. My data shows that a 50 KG cart has  2438 Joules of potential energy at the top of the initial drop, and 2435 Joules of kinetic energy at the bottom. This means that the kart also has enough kinetic energy to get over the hill. A 45 KG cart had only had 2183 Joules of potential energy at the top of the drop. This shows that more mass means that there will be more total energy. I think these recommendations will make for the best fun and safe roller coaster.
