The drop height of my roller coaster design is 5 meters. This is because the cart will need to have enough potential energy to make it over the hill. For example when I tested the drop height of 4 meters, the PE didnt have enough joules to make it over our hill. When I increased the drop height to 5 meters, the PE was much greater and had enough energy to make it over the hill. If my drop is 5 meters high then that means that my hill needs to be anywhere less of 5 meters or the potential energy wont have enough joules to make it up the entire hill. In my model to stop the cart we have one hill at the end that doesnt go back down and so the cart goes up and loses all its potential energy and comes to a stop. If the drop of my coaster is higher it will have more potential energy at the top and more kinetic energy at the bottom. Potential energy is how much potential the car has/will have. The only time you can have potential energy is when the cart is above surface level. kinetic energy is when the potential energy is transferred as it goes down the hill so that the kinetic energy can push it back up or bring it to a slow stop. One dropping down the hill the kinetic energy shifts perfectly in line with the potential energy. If you are half way down the hill both energies will be even, total energy is always all the energies added up. For example if you start with 1,000 joules of potential energy and have 0 kinetic energy, you will have a total of 1,000 joules of energy. The law of conservation of energy states that energy can no be destroyed. This means that it must be transferred to another energy source just like kinetic energy to potential energy. Drop height will always start with 0 kinetic energy and will have to be higher than the hill height to be able to make it over. once you make it to the hill you will have partial kinetic energy and partial potential energy because it wont be high enough to equal the total energy.
The mass of your cart will effect your coasters potential energy and kinetic energy because the cart is much harder to transfer as it is a much heavier object.