For our teams roller coaster design we will design it to be exciting but also make it to the end of the ride without stopping. First of all, to make sure the car will make it to the end of the coaster we will make the initial drop height be 5 meters high. We will make it 5 meters high because we have learned that the higher the drop the more PE the car will have to make it to the end. For example, we tried many trials including drop heights of 2,3,4, and 5 and noticed that as the height of the drop increased the PE also increased. To be specific, when the height was 4 meters, the PE was 1,955 J and when the height was 5 meters the PE was 2,443 J which also increased the total energy. As the PE increased the KE also increased at the bottom of the initial drop and the more KE energy it has then the more energy it will have to make it to the end of the coaster. As the PE at the top of the initial drop decreased, the KE at the top of the initial drop increased which helped me notice how they had an indirect relationship. When we set the release height at 4 meters, the total energy was 1,955 J but when we increased the release height to 5 meters the total energy was 2,443 J. As PE went down the drop it decreased and changed into KE which increased the KE energy as it went down the hill. According to the Law of conservation of energy, no mass can be created or destroyed. For example, when the PE was 2,443 J and the KE was 0 J the total was still 2,443 J because there was no friction changing the energy into other mechanical forms and no energy could be destroyed or created. When the drop height was greater than the hill height, the car had enough PE to make it over the hill. On the other hand, when the drop height was the same or less than the hill height, the car could not make it over the hill because there was not enough PE. When the mass of the car increased then the PE also increased and the KE increased as well. For instance, when the car mass was 50 kg the PE and KE were both 2,443 J. When the car mass was 60 kg the PE and KE were both 2,932 J. This data also shows how car mass, KE, and PE all have a direct relationship. We also realized how the total energy is always the PE and KE added up and will never be more or less than the PE and KE combined. This information helped us decide that we want the initial drop height to be higher than the hill height and we want the mass of the car to be 60 kg because that's what produced the most energy. 