This is my idea for the roller coaster. First, for the initial drop, I want to make the drop 5 meters tall because that is how you get more PE because when the height increases the PE increases. For example, in my first trial, I made the height of the initial drop 2 meters and the TE was 977 joules but, on my last trial I made the height of the initial drop 5 meters, and the TE was 2443 joules. This shows a direct relationship between PE and height. Second, for the hill, I decided to make the height 3 meters because 3 meters is the median causing the KE to constantly stay at a high amount of joules. But also the PE is high and the drop still gives adrenaline. For example, In my first trial, I made the hill 4 meters and the KE at the top of the hill was 482 joules and the PE was 1965. In my second trial, I made the hill 3 meters tall and the KE at the top of the hill was 973 joules and the PE was 1474 joules. In my final trial, I made the hill 2 meters tall and the KE at the top of the hill was 1464 joules and the PE was 982 joules. Finally, for the mass of the car, I decided to make it 60 kg because the more weight an object has the more energy that object will have. For example, in my first trial, I made the car mass 60 kg and the TE was 2936. In my final trial, I made the car 40 kg causing the TE to be 1957 which shows a direct relationship in the car's mass. Also, TE is the amount of total energy that an object has, showing that the car had more energy when the weight was higher. In conclusion, I want the make the height of the initial drop 5 meters, the height of the hill 3 meters and the mass of the car 60 kg. All of these conclusions were made because having more potential energy means you will have more kinetic energy, which makes for a more fun ride. Also, throughout this writing, there are examples of energy transformations which is when a certain type of energy transforms into another type of energy. For example, the PE of the initial drop transforms into KE when the cart goes into motion. 