There are many components when it comes to building a roller coaster but one of the biggest ones is physics. Physics helps us understand how much energy the cart has, how high our hills can be, and many more things.

There are three main kinds of energy when building a roller coaster. These are potential energy, kinetic energy, and the total energy that the cart has. Total energy is the combined sum of all energy that is present. This can be made up of multiple kinds of energy such as thermal energy and kinetic energy. Potential energy is the energy of a position, for example a cart sitting still at the top of a hill. It has a potential to move, but it is not. Kinetic energy is the energy of motion when that cart does roll down the hill. When a cart is at the initial drop the potential energy is the highest amount of energy that the cart is going to get. This is because of the Law of Conservation of Energy. This law states that energy isn't destroyed or created, therefore the potential energy at the initial drop is equivalent to the total energy. When the cart is pushed down the hill it looses potential energy. Although because of the Law of Conservation of Energy, that energy is converted to the energy of motion, or kinetic energy. When the cart is fully down the hill, the cart is still moving. However, because the cart is no longer in a position that might give it energy the potential energy is zero. The energy is not lost, as stated by the Law of Conservation of Energy, but because the cart is moving it is kinetic energy. This means that all the energy that was once potential is now kinetic and equal to the total energy. 

The mass of the cart also plays a roll in this. Gravity accelerates objects of larger mass at a faster rate. An example of this is dropping a bowling ball and an apple. The bowling ball accelerates toward the ground faster because gravity's hold on it is stronger. This is the same analogy for the cart. The more mass that it has the more total energy, as well as more potential energy the cart has when at the initial drop. The cart has more potential energy at the initial drop when the mass is greater because gravity is pulling down on it. Potential energy is converted to kinetic energy when set into motion. When there is more potential energy at the start that means that there is more kinetic energy at the bottom.

When deciding the initial drop height to power your cart through the track, the hill needs to be smaller than the initial drop height. The hill needs to be smaller than the initial drop because the initial drop gives the cart a certain amount of energy. If the hill is the same height or more, the energy to get up the hill is greater than the energy that the cart has. This means the cart will not be able to make it over the hill if the hill is greater or equal to the initial drop.