					     Essay 1
					  By: Oskar Jasti

Dear, Gonzales Family

Introduction
 I and my company have a proposal for how the roller coaster is built. We think the design will be fun, exciting, and fast. I will be making the Initial Drop 5 meters, the hill height will be 3 meters, and the car mass will be 60 kg because it will be giving us the most speed and the most fun possible.

Initial Drop Height
For example, when I tested the drop height of 2 meters, the PE was 977 Joules. When I increased the drop height to 3.5 meters, the PE increased to 1710 Joules. When I increased the drop height to 5 meters, The PE increased to 2443 Joules. That is why I think the drop height should be 5 meters for my ride.

Hill Height
When I made the hill height 2 meters the PE at the top of the hill was 982 Joules and the car did make it to the end. When I increased the hill height to 2.5 meters the PE at the top of the hill increased to 1128 Joules and yes it did make it to the end of the track. When I increased the hill height to 3 the Pe at the top of the hill increased to 1470 Joules and yes it did make it to the end of the track. That is why I think the 3 is the best hill height for my ride.

Car Mass
When I made the car mass 40 kg the PE was 978 Joules at the top of the hill. When I increased the car mass to 50 kg the PE increased to 1218 Joules at the top of the hill. When I increased the mass one last time to 60 kg the PE increased to 1468 Joules at the top of the hill.

Things You Should Know
PE stands for potential energy. KE stands for kinetic energy. Last but not least TE stands for total energy. The relationship between PE, KE, and TE is PE+KE=TE. The higher the car mass the higher energy. Same thing can be said about Initial Drop. But it is not the same as Hill height because if the hill height is too high the car will not make it to the end of the ride. That would be a big problem if that happened.

Conclusion
have found some great heights for the roller coaster to keep it fun and fast but safe. I have given you data from my trials of Initial Drop, Hill Height, and Car mass. I also gave you some stuff you should know about the roller coaster and the words and phases I use. I also tested the roller coaster with friction. I hope my numbers and data were a guide on where we are in the process of making the roller coaster. Talk to you soon, Gonzalas's Family.
From Oskar JastiI 

