Dear Gonzales family, the engineering company you hired has figured out measurements for the following: Initial drop, hill height, and car mass. Starting with the drop height the company chose 5 meters. This is because the more potential energy you have at the start of the track the more total energy. Since energy cannot be destroyed the PE at the top of the ID will equal the KE at the bottom. Since we know that as the hill gets taller there is more PE As we also know PE and KE don’t swap all at once they gradually change. PE and KE always equal TE  at any given time. For instance, if the hill was taller than the initial drop, the car wouldn’t have enough kinetic energy to make it. As an example for a test with the initial drop of 3 meters and a hill of 4 meters as well as the mass of the car at 50kg. In that test, car did not make it over the hill because it didn’t have enough kinetic energy left over. That is why we picked 5 meters for the initial drop. And this way we knew that the car wouldn’t have too little energy.

	For the hill height, we decided to pick 3.5 meters high. As we said in the previous paragraph the hill has to be shorter than the drop or the car won’t make it over the hill. And as the law of conservation states energy can’t be created or destroyed. This means that we have the energy from the ID and that's it. This height maximizes fun and safety. We tried other heights as well, but the closer we got to the initial drop height it got closer and closer to not making it and eventually not at all. We found that 3.5 meters would keep you going over the hill without you even getting the thought of not making it and it is also tall enough that it doesn't whip your head back and forth. That is why we picked 3.5 meters as the hill height. We do not doubt that the car will make it over the hill every time.

	Finally the mass, for the mass we decided to pick 55 kilograms. The main reason we chose this is so that it would maximize total energy and minimize slowing down. Since we knew that more mass equals more energy we maximized what we thought would be a good weight for the car. Since more mass also means more friction we made sure to avoid creating too much of that. And there you go, that is our design for the rollercoaster.