
Dear gonzales family, 
My company and I have come up with a proposal to make a roller coaster that we designed which is fun and safe for the riders. You wanted the hill height to be larger than the drop height, correct? My team and I decided that it wouldn't work/be safe because the TE wouldn't have enough energy to make it over the hill because of the small amount of speed left over. 

 The drop height of the roller coaster is 5.00 meters tall. This is because the roller coaster needs to be a fun and safe ride, and since we made it as tall as possible, it provides everyone to have a great time. For example, when I tested the roller coaster's drop height at 5.00 meters, the PE was 2,446 joules. When I decreased the drop height to 4.75,  the PE decreased to 2,324 Joules. 

The drop height defines the amount of PE shown. At the top of the drop, the KE was zero; but at the bottom of the drop, the KE was 2,321 joules. Unlike the PE and KE, the TE stays the same throughout the ride. So as you can see there is a clear difference between the top and the bottom amounts of KE and a clear difference between the two PE drops and how the drops change with just a .25 difference. 

Since we want the ride to be the most enjoyable possible, we made some hills, about 3.00 meters tall. The KE was the energy powering the 40 kg car up the hill because it skyrocketed to 2443J. Since the PE was at 0J,  it helped power the cart up the hill. Since the law of conservation says that  “the mass of any one element at the beginning of a reaction will equal the mass of that element at the end of the reaction” it means that the creation can't be destroyed or created anymore. 

Since the ID is larger than the HH, it makes it more likely to be able to go over the hill, but if the hill was bigger than the ID, it would go over because the KE didnt have enough power to go down the small ID and the large hill wouldn't have made enough power to go over it. Even if you change the mass of the car it still wouldn't be able to go over the larger hill.

So, as you can see I chose to make the ride most enjoyable and safe as can be. I hope you like my offer! 
