Dear Gonzales Family, 
Me and my engineering company have designed a rollercoaster ride that is safe and entertaining for your amusement park. Based on the testing we have done, we believe that the initial drop height of your roller coaster should be 3 meters. This is because the higher the height of the drop, the more energy is produced. For example, when we tested the drop height of 2 meters, the PE was 977 Joules. When I increased the drop height 3 meters, the PE increased to 1585 Joules. Potential energy is the energy stored in an object. When the cart moves, the Potential energy turns into Kinetic energy. Kinetic energy is the energy the cart has because of its motion. This energy will make the roller coaster faster and fun. With the law of conservation of energy, we cannot create more energy. Therefore, we must have initial potential energy higher than the other drops. The criteria of the hill height is that it should be lower than the initial drop height because when the hill height is higher than the initial drop, the cart won’t make it over. The car mass will also increase potential energy and kinetic energy. So the more mass of the car, the more kinetic energy there is. 

Here are the reasons why we won't go higher. Our data showed that if we increased the initial drop, hill height, and car mass, it could cost more, be dangerous, and the ride would not make it to the end. If the initial drop height was a 5, the joules would be at 2443 j. Which could possibly injure a person. If the hill height was higher than the ID, then the cart would not make it over. If the car mass was higher, the larger the momentum and force you need to change it. Our data also shows that if we lower our initial drop, hill height, and car mass it will be less fun. If the initial drop height is lower, it will not be able to get over the hill. If the hill height is lower, it won’t complete the course. If the car mass is also lower, it will be much lighter and faster. This is our idea for your rollercoaster.
