Over the past two weeks, I have figured out a lot about how energy works, and I have some ideas. The drop height of my roller coaster design is 5 meters. This is because if the initial drop is at its highest point, the rest of the track can be shorter at any other height, the greater the height, the greater the energy will be. This happens because the taller the initial drop, the more total energy. For example, when I tested a drop height of 2 meters, the PE was 977 joules. When I increased the height to 3.75 meters, the PE was increased to 1832 joules. When I increased the height, again, to 4.24 meters, the PE increased, to 2077 joules. 

 As the car’s speed increased, the PE at the top, KE at the bottom, and the KE increased. The PE and KE equal how much total energy there will be, and this changes our ride because the more energy, the faster you will go. The heavier the car, the quicker it goes down a hill, but the slower it can climb up. This means that if the car is too heavy it won't be able to get up taller climbs. That's why I chose 40kg for my car. Energy cannot be created or destroyed but, it can be transformed into different forms, but, it has the same total energy anywhere on the ride. This is why the PE turns into KE faster or slower depending on your speed and mass when you ride down a hill, but total energy always stays the same.

The hill height of my rollercoaster design is 3.30 meters. This is because the hill height has to be lower than the initial drop, otherwise the car won’t make it over the hill. For example, when I tested a hill height of 2m, the car made it over easily, the KE was 1711 joules. When I tried 2.75m, the car made it over with a KE at the top of the hill being 363 joules. However, when I tried a hill height of 4.02 meters, the car couldn’t make it over the hill because it was taller than the initial drop. This shows that the hill height can’t be more than the initial drop. 

I won’t go higher than my initial drop, hill height, and car mass because otherwise, it won’t make it through the track or be safe. I say this because when we tested a heavier car at 60kg, it couldn’t make it up our hill. We made the hill 3.3m because the car would go fast and keep it a thrilling experience. I won’t go lower because if the car is too light, it goes too fast. If the hill is lower, it goes to fast over the hill and it is too dangerous in my mind. 