Dear Gonzales family. My building company has worked hard to find ideas for your roller coaster. The drop height of my roller coaster design is 4.50 meters. This is because when the height of the ID is greater the energy will become greater. For example, when I tested the drop height of 3 meters, the PE was 1466 Joules. When I  increased the drop height to 4 meters, the PE increased to 1955 Joules. We increased the height one more time to 5 meters, and the PE increased to 2443. While we were doing this we noticed that the PE at the top of the Inatiail drop is the same as the KE at the bottom of the Inatiail drop. They would continuously switch going down the Inatiail drop. The PE at the top added to the KE at the bottom equals total energy.

Now we have started to add a hill. We kept the entail drop at 3.50 for these trials. We tested the hill height of 2 meters, the PE at the top of the hill was 982 Joules. It made it over the hill. When we increased the hill height to 3 meters, the PE at the top of the hill was 1597 Joules. It made it over the hill again. We changed the hill height one more time. We changed the height to 3.50 meters, and the PE at the top of the hill to 1711 Joules. This time it didn’t make it over the hill. This shows that the hill height needs to be lower than the initial drop height. While we were doing these trials we noticed that the PE at the top of the hill is always greater than the KE at the top of the hill. As well at Intail drop when you add PE and KE you get total energy.

We moved on to mass and energy after hill height. We tested the car mass of 45kg, The PE of the Initial drop was 1992 Joules. We changed the car mass to 55kg, the PE of the initial drop on this trail was 2387 Joules. We changed the car mass one more time to 60kg, The PE of the initial drop changed to 2642 Joules. When the car mass increases so does the kinetic energy and total energy. As well as the initial drop PE at the top is the same as the KE at the bottom. If you bring everything together and think this energy can't be created or destroyed but it can turn into another type of energy.


So you can see that we tried many different things to make an amazing roller coaster for your park. We changed the Initial drop, added a hill, and mass and energy. We will keep trying new things and make it even better. 
