Dear Gonzalla family. 
My engineering crew has made a roller coaster design that is both safe and fun. We believe that the roller coaster's initial drop should be three meters. My crew thinks this because when there is more height on the initial drop, there is more energy. For example, when the height was two meters, the roller coaster had a total energy of 977J. When the height increased to 2.5 meters, the total energy increased to 1,222J. When the height was three( the height we believe you should use for your roller coaster) the total energy was 1,467. We believe that it should be three meters because it is both fun enough to be enjoyable, but it is also not super high so it is not safe. 

We believe that the height of the hill on the roller coaster should be 2.55 meters. We believe this because then the car will be able to go over the hill and be safe and enjoyable. We believe it should be this way because if it is higher or the same height as the initial drop, the car will not go over the hill. Things to prove this is when the height of the hill was two meters, the total energy was 1,715J. The PE at the top of the initial drop was the same as the total energy, and KE was zero. When the car was at the top of the hill, the PE was 973J and the KE was 741J. When you add those two together, you get the total energy. It also went over the hill. That is one where the car goes over the hill. When the hill height is more than the initial drop, it doesn’t go over. On one of our failed attempts, the hill height was four, the total energy was 1715J. When the car got close enough to the top, the PE was 1613J and the KE was 102J. The car couldn't go over the hill because there wasn’t enough energy to make it over the hill. According to the law of conservation of energy, energy can not be destroyed or created but can be combined. This shows that you could not create more energy so that it can go over the hill. On one of our attempts, the hill was the same as the initial drop, we had them both at 3.5 meters. The car did not go over the hill. The total energy was 1714J and at the top of the hill, the numbers were not evenly split. PE was 1711 and KE was only three. This is why we suggest that you have the hill height at 2.55 meters. 

We believe that the mass of the car should be 54kg. We think this because the higher the mass, the higher the amount of total energy. On one of our attempts, the mass of the car was 50kg and the PE at the top of the initial drop was 1223, then at the bottom of the drop, the KE was 1223, so total energy was 1223. On another attempt, the mass of the car was 54kg and the PE at the top of the initial drop was 1320 and KE at the bottom was 1320, so the total energy would be 1320. On another attempt, the mass of the car was 58kg and the PE at the top of the initial drop was 1419 and KE at the bottom was the same, so the total energy would be 1419. We recommend using 54kg because that is the maximum amount of mass so that the car can get over the hill and to the end of the ride. We believe that if you add a loop, the loop height should be two meters high because then the car can go up and over and go to the end of the ride. As you can see, the roller coaster should have these things added to the roller coaster for your theme park.
From: Construction crew.

