                                                                          Roller Coaster Essay #1


Dear Gonzales family,
	
I have been planning your roller coaster with both safety and fun in mind and think the initial drop height should be 4.75m, the hill height should be 4.30m, the loop height should be 4.25m, the car mass should be 58kg, and the friction should be 0.01. With all of this for the rollercoaster the maximum speed will be 9.5 m/s and the maximum acceleration will be 41.2 m/s2. With these numbers being the maximum speed and acceleration the roller coaster is fun to ride and safe to ride. 

The initial drop height of my roller coaster design is 4.75m; with this as my initial drop height my PE at the top of the initial drop is 2692J and the KE at the bottom of the initial drop is 2692J. When I decrease the height of the initial drop to 4.40m the PE at the top of the initial drop was 2494j and at the bottom of the initial drop the KE was 2494j. Then I decided to increase the height of the initial drop to 5m. The PE at the top of the roller coaster was 2834j and at the bottom at the initial drop the KE was 2834j. When I decreased the height of the initial drop the roller coaster speed went down because the mass of the car went down causing there to be a decrease in TE. I know this because to get TE you need KE and PE added and to get PE it is mass multiplied by gravity multiplied by height. So by changing the mass of the car it affects PE which then affects the TE and KE. If you went with the 5m initial drop height it would make the roller coaster unsafe to ride. So this is why I have the initial drop height being 4.75m.  I have the hill height being 4.30m making the maximum speed 9.5 m/s and the maximum acceleration 41.2 m/s2. With these rates it makes the roller coaster both fun and safe.

 The height for the hill makes the roller coaster both fun and safe because if we lowered the height of the hill to 3.25m it would cause the maximum speed to be 8.3 m/s and the maximum acceleration would be 31.2 m/s2. This would make the roller coaster lower the speed and acceleration making the roller coaster not as fun. If we increase the hill height to 5m the car would not go over the hill height because it is higher than the initial drop. This would conclude us back to the hill height being 4.30m because if we lower the height it is not as fun and if we make the hill height higher the car will not go over the hill. I believe that the loop height should be 4.25m because it makes the loop both fun and safe. If the loop height is 4.25m the maximum speed and acceleration would be 9.5 m/s and the maximum acceleration would be 41.2 m/s2. If we lower the height of the loop to 3.25m the speed on the loop would be very low and the acceleration would be too. If we increased the height of the loop to 5m the car would not go over the loop and would be unsafe to ride the roller coaster. This is all occurring because the hill height cannot be bigger than the initial drop height for the car to go over the hill. The car cannot go over the hill because it demonstrates more gravitational potential energy than the initial drop height. This leaves the hill to be able to not go over it. This would leave it to be that the height of the loop would have to be 4.25m to be fun, safe, and able to go over the hill. So now you can see the reasons behind why I want the height of the loop to be 4.25m, for both safety and fun in mind.

 I believe that the car mass should be 58kg because it keeps the car going at both a fast and safe pace. I know this because the current maximum acceleration is 41.2m/s2 and the maximum speed is 9.5m/s. With these rates it makes that car going at the right speeds and acceleration to be safe. If we change the car mass to be higher there would be more TE and that could lead to an unsafe ride. If we added more mass to the car the car would get more momentum and could get to an unsafe level of momentum. So for the roller coaster to be safe and fun the car mass should be 58kg.

I believe that the friction for the roller coaster car should be 0.01 because in case of any emergencies the car can slow down but still allow the car to go fast. Making this be the perfect amount of friction for the roller coaster. The friction turns the potential energy and kinetic energy into heat energy. The heat energy is useful because it makes the track and wheels of the roller coaster hotter and hotter tracks and wheels make the roller coaster go faster because as we learned when the molecules are warmer they go faster and vibrate more along with the track and wheels causing them to go faster. 

So in conclusion, we need the initial drop height to be 4.75m, the hill height to be 4.30m, the loop height to be 4.25m, the car mass to be 58kg, and the friction to be 0.01. All for safety reasons and for fun.
