Rollercoaster Essay # 1
Dear Gonzales family, 

I and my company have come up with an idea for your roller coaster but we can sadly not make the Hill height bigger than the ID, the ID height for my design is 5.00m, the Hill height is 3.00m, and the mass of my car is 40kg. I used these numbers cause if the ID is taller than the Hill Height it will make it over without friction. This is because of the law of conservation (Energy can not be created or destroyed but just remade in other forms). In trail #1 the mass was 50kg the PE at the top was 1711J, the KE at the bottom was also 1711J. And the TE was 1711 when the KE is at the bottom it is the same and the PE at the top will be 0J know cause energy is made in other forms.

For height, if we increase the hill height and it is bigger than the ID it will not make it over. For trail #1 the ID was permanently 3.50m and the Hill height was 2m it made it over cause the Hill height was smaller than the ID, For trail #2 the Hill height was 4m and the ID was 3.50m the car could not make it over. This is caused because we do not have enough energy to make it over the hill. PE is when the energy is stored and KE is when the object is in motion it then applies energy. All of my data shows that If the ID is not more increased than the Hill height it will not make it over.

TE is the total energy, TE is all the energy on the roller coaster. When there is no friction the PE at the top and the KE at the bottom are the same as the TE. It is the sum of all the energies (Potinal energy & Kinetic energy). Another example is in trail #1 the PE at the top was 1711, the KE at the bottom was also 1711 and lastly the TE was 1711. The data numbers for the last energies were all the same cause of the law of conservation.

PE is the energy that is already stored in the car/object. KE is the energy that is applied when the car is put in motion cause the PE is being transferred into
KE. PE and KE are both energies but are applied in different ways and used also in different ways. With most of our trail the PE and the KE are the same at some point in the ride.

