Dear Gonzales family, 

A while back you tasked me and my team to build your new and exciting Roller Coaster. I and my brilliant team have some base ideas and were wondering what your feedback would be on this project. 
We would like to have an Initial drop height of 3.00 meters, a hill height of 2.50 meters, and a car mass of 50 kg.
        The initial drop height was 3.00 meters because we found that the height of the initial drop has to give the cart enough potential energy to make its way over the hill but we will discuss how the initial drop and the height of the hill interact with each other later on. Potential energy is the energy an object has because of its position and before it is acted upon. As we let our cart drop the Potential energy starts to convert into kinetic energy which is the energy an object has because of its motion or after it is acted upon. When the car reaches the bottom of the hill all the once potential energy is transferred into kinetic energy. We got this information from running a  series of tests which we shall list now. The first test for the initial drop height started with a drop height of 2 meters and we found that at the top of the drop, the potential energy was 977 jewels, and the kinetic energy of the same 977 jewels at the bottom due to conversion. We also found out that the kinetic energy/ potential energy is equal to the total energy which is the same 977 jewels. In the second test we increased the initial drop height to 2.25 and this time the potential energy at the top was 1101 jewels and the same for the kinetic energy and the total energy. This proves that the larger the height is for the initial drop the more potential energy at the top, kinetic energy at the bottom, and the total energy we will end up having. We also know that the kinetic energy at the top and the potential energy at the bottom will always be zero. 
        Our hill height was 2.50 meters. We decided this height because as I said before the hill height has to be greater than the initial drop height to make it over the hill. When the car starts its descent down the hill and the potential energy starts to convert into kinetic energy. However, when it reaches the start of the hill the kinetic energy starts to convert back into potential energy because its position is changing and position is what determines the potential energy of the car. Because my hill height is half of my initial drop height, the total energy would be half as well. It will also decrease when it is descending the other side of the hill. We also did tests for this as well. First, we had a hill height of 3 and an initial drop height of 3.50 which stays the same throughout all of this test. Our potential energy        at the top of our initial drop was 1714j and the potential energy at the top of our hill was 1474j and a kinetic of 240j did make it up the hill. In our next test though we had a hill height of 4 and a potential energy of 1715 at the top of the initial drop. Our potential energy at the top of the hill was 1694j and a kinetic of 21j and therefore did not make it up the hill. This proves that the hill height has to be smaller than the initial drop because of the amount of energy the object starts with.
        Our car mass is 50 kg. We thought that this would be a good mass because it makes your ride exciting but not too fast. This is due to the more mass an object has the faster it goes because of it weighing more. Say we have a car with a mass of 30kg it would make it over everything but it wouldn’t be as exciting or fast, but if we had a car mass of around 60 kg it would be two times faster and therefore make it more of the thriller that you were hoping for. This was our last series of tests before contacting you. First, we have a car mass of 50kg and potential energy at the bottom, and total energy of 1477j. While at the bottom the kinetic energy was at 1474j. In our second experiment, we had a car mass of 60kg and potential energy at the bottom and total energy of 1760j. While at the bottom the kinetic energy was at 1756j. This proves that the higher the mass of the car equals the higher the kinetic energy and potential energy the car has and having more energy forces the car to move at a faster pace.
        Thank you for trusting us to build your new and exciting roller coaster. We can not wait to hear your thoughts and feelings on what I and my team have brainstormed. If you have any questions about the initial drop height, the hill height, and the car mass you know how to get hold of us. Thank you again for choosing us to build your new and exciting coaster.

                                             Sincerely,
                                                                       Coaster.Inc

