Dear Gonzalas family

I think some of these recommendations would be good for you. The drop height of my roller coaster is 5m high, the hill height is 3m, and the loop height is 2.5m. I think these are good heights for your roller coaster because the heights I have given you are safe and very fun to ride. The reason I know this is because the roller coaster has a very big ID and the roller coaster has a hill and a loop and all these things can work in a ride as long as the height of ID is bigger than the HH and the loop must have a lower height than 5 meters and you should be able to make the ride to the end.

Some ways I can prove this is with data I have gathered over a little time. For ID height I think you could use any height but I think you should use 4.5m or 3m. The reason why I think this is because these heights produce a good amount of PE and a safe amount of PE. For HH I think you should use any height but it has a lower height than the ID otherwise there won't be enough PE and KE to make it over the hill. Next for car mass, a good mass would be 50kg so it's even and safe. The way KE and PE will affect the TE is when the cart is at the top of the ID and the PE is the only energy. It will be how much energy you will have to go over the hill and when the cart is at the top of the hill that is when the KE is the energy. Next, when the cart gets to the end it will have the PE and KE add up to get the TE and when having more KE than PE the cart will not make it to the end of the ride. And when the cart is going up the hill that's when the PE transforms into KE and that's how the cart gets to the end.


The reason why I will not change the heights of my ID HH and car mass is because for some if you change you can not make it to the end of the ride. For example, if you have the ID lower than the HH the car will not have enough energy to make it to the end. Another example is if you increase the weight of the car mass it would go too fast and it might not be safe and if you decrease the weight of the car it can not hold lots of weight on it.
