Dear Gonzales Family: I will go over why my roller coaster will be super fun, the science behind how it will work, and how it will get from start to finish. I know to get more energy in an easy way is to increase its mass creating more potential energy before the ride and more during the ride to make the ride better. Another aspect I will go over is how the initial height has to be taller than the hills. I know all of this information from the trials results I will be showing you and

How will this work you may ask. It is easier than you might think, the coaster cart will be a total of 60 kg or more so it will have more energy. I know this because in the mass vs energy simulation when the car was 60 kg it had a total of around 2900(J) of total energy. While when the mass was 50 kg it had around 2400(J). I know the more (J) you have the faster the coaster is gonna go. The initial drop height will be higher than all my hills also. This will follow up with a turn turning all the potential energy into kinetic once it goes down the initial drop.  At the top of the first hill the height will have to be less than my initial drop. I know this because as stated in the law of conservation it states energy cannot be created or destroyed. I also know this because in the add a hill simulation my initial height for all trials was 4 m, in one of my trials the hill height was 5 meters tall and the coaster failed to make it over the hill. But then when the hill was 3 meters tall it went over. This proves 2 different ways how the initial height has to be higher than the hill itself. Another aspect of the science behind a roller coaster is that the total energy will be the same throughout the entire run. Although kinetic energy and potential energy will go up and down throughout the run. When the roller coaster goes down a hill it loses all of its potential when it get to the bottom. But as it gets up the hill the kinetic energy then turns into potential I know this throughout the trial initial drop. In this simulation it shows little to no potential energy at the bottom and the kinetic energy being about the same as total energy.   The roller coaster will get through any obstacle as long as long as it is carrying its same energy as the initial drop height if the hills are smaller than the initial drop height. The Law Of Conservation it states energy cannot be created nor destroyed, meaning it would have the same amount of total energy, however there will be a mix of both potential energy and kinetic energy. Another thing to think about is when all potential energy shifts toward kinetic energy to try and make its way up the hill. t

In the end Science and the Law Of Conservation proves that his roller coaster will be fully functional if he listens to the science behind it, and follows through what I said.