In this letter of recommendation, I will go over why my roller coaster will be fun, the science behind it, and what are the requirements for the roller coaster cart to get to the end. I believe that a roller coaster with more total energy will be better for the riders and the hills have to be smaller than the initial drop height and to have the most speed the mass of the cart has to be very heavy. 

To have more energy the height of the initial drop must be high. I know this because in all of the tests I have made the higher the drop is the more total energy is involved with the simulation. I know this because to have more total energy you have to have the chance for kinetic energy. One good way to have lots of potential energy is to start high up in the air. This causes the cart to have lots of potential energy because as the cart goes down the drop the kinetic energy will build up. I know this is the case because, in my tests for my initial drops, I made the release height 4.07 m and the potential energy at the top of the drop 1987 J, and in a different test I made the height 3.6 m and the potential energy was 1759 J. The only problem is that one drop isn't going to make a fun roller coaster you still need to add some hills to it. I did just that. I kept the highest height I experimented with and added hills onto it four different times. My tests concluded that the hill has to be shorter than the initial drop. This is because when you have a set amount of energy that cannot be created or destroyed stated by the rule of conservation, you have to stay within the boundaries of the amount of energy you have on the coaster. If you were to add a hill higher than the drop the cart wouldn't be able to get to the end because the cart wouldn't have enough kinetic energy. I know this because in my research I played around with four different hills and I came across only one cart that didn't make it over and the height of the hill was 4.07 m other than this hill the cart made it over all of the shorter hills. This proves that you have to have a smaller hill than the initial height of your coaster if you want the cart to get to the end. Another way to add more speed and thus add more total energy would be to make them as heavy as possible. I know this because in my testing I kept the same initial drop height and the hill height of 3.05 m and changed the weight of the cart four times and figured out that the more mass the cart has the more total energy there will be on the coaster. This is because if the cart has more mass it will pick off more speed thus creating more kinetic energy and friction giving off more heat energy. In conclusion, I figured out that the potential energy plus kinetic energy is equal to the total energy in the coaster.