To the Gonzales family. 

This is the Angle roller coaster company, and im going to tell you about the coolest rollercoaster ever. I will explain the science behind it and what there will be(hills and drop height, plus the mass of the coaster).

The initial drop will be at 50 meters because the height of the initial drop affects the amount of energy, the higher the height the more the energy. I know this because in my tests I found out that an initial drop with 2 meters has 977 PE. While a height of 4.62 meters has 2255 PE. This shows that the height of the initial drop affects the amount of energy. 

The more PE there is the more KE there will be. I know this because in one of my tests the amount of PE on the top of the initial drop was 1956, and the amount of KE at the bottom was 1954. This means the PE transfers to KE when the roller coaster is going down the initial drop, also called energy transformation. 

I also found that the total energy changed even when the PE changed to KE. In one of my many tests the PE was 1785 at the top (the same as the TE) of the initial drop and 1784 at the bottom of the initial drop, which was also the same as the TE. The amount of PE at the top of the initial drop will be the same amount of KE at the bottom, during this process the amount of TE stays the same. This proves that the amount of TE does not change. The law of conservation of energy  also proves this. The law of conservation of energy  says that “the amount of energy is neither created nor destroyed." This proves that the TE will stay the same.
 
I am going to add 2 hills, one will be 43 meters and the other 39 meters. The hills have to be below the height of the initial drop because if the hills are higher or the same height of the initial drop, the coaster will not make it over the hill. This is because in one of my tests I had the hill at 5 meters and the initial drop at 5 meters. The coaster did not make it over the hill because the hill and drop were the same height. I want the hills to be 40 meters because they are tall but not tall enough for the coaster to make it over. The reason I want them tall is because the higher the hill, the more PE. On my 4th test it shows that the hill height is 4.10 meters, and has a PE of 2014 at the top of the hill. My third test has a height of 2 meters and has a PE of 981. This shows that the higher the hill, the more PE which also means more KE as explained previously. 

Also, the mass of the roller coaster has to be above 55 kg or more. The mass of the roller coaster (in kg) affects the amount of total energy. If the coaster has a higher mass it will have more energy. This has been proven from my 3nd and 4th tests in Mass & Energy data, the mass in the third was 60 kg and had a total energy of 2934. The 4th test had 55 kg of mass and had a total energy of 2690. This shows that the amount of mass affects the amount of energy. 

With these amazing features and that it will go fast, this is the best roller coaster. I have put a lot of thought into this and hope these recommendations will be helpful. 

Sincerely the Angle company.
