I designed a roller coaster that might just be the trick to attract visitors. My coaster design will be fun to ride on since it features loops and wraps around the track every now and then. The car on my design should also be able to make it to the end of the track since the initial drop height is higher than the highest point mid-run. Let's go into depth with each of those points.

My roller coaster design has a lot of twists and turns that make the roller coaster more fun than other rides. Here's how the coaster will go, starting from the initial drop. Starting from the steep initial drop, you'll start off pretty fast and then you'll go through a loop. After the loop, you pass through the middle of said loop and wrap around the track that leads up to the loop. After wrapping around the track, you go underneath, wrap around that track again, and go down another steep drop, and the ride then ends. 

Also, using my design for the roller coaster, the car should be able to make it to the end without a problem. The Law of Conservation of Energy states that the amount of energy in a closed system will remain the same. It also states that said energy can only be converted from one form to another. Since this roller coaster is technically a closed system, all of the energy it will ever have will remain at the same amount and can only be converted. At the beginning of the coaster, potential energy starts being converted to kinetic energy as the car falls down the track. At the lowest point after the drop and before the loop, the car will be moving at its fastest speed. Since the top of the loop is lower than the initial drop, the car will be able to make it over. We can prove this using data from some of my runs of a simulation. That is because the car still has some kinetic energy left after the drop and not all of the kinetic energy has converted back to potential. With an initial drop height of 4.5 meters and a hill height of 4 meters, the coaster was able to make it to the end. This is because the car still had 276 joules of kinetic energy at the top of the hill after the drop. However, if this loop were higher than the initial drop, the car wouldn't make it to the end since all of the kinetic energy would be exhausted and the car would move backwards. We can see this with another one of my data points. With an initial drop height of 4.5 meters and a hill height of 5 meters, the car couldn't make it to the end of the track. This is because the car had converted all 2,558 joules of kinetic energy back to potential energy before the car could even make it to the top of the hill. My roller coaster design has a drop height greater than the height of the loop, so it will be able to make it after the loop. After that first loop, the track keeps going downward, so the car is guaranteed to have enough kinetic energy to make it to the end of the track.

In conclusion, my roller coaster design will be really fun, plus the car will be able to make it to the end without backtracking at the same time. The roller coaster would be fun because of its unique design, and the car would make it without fail with its high drop height. I hope you will consider making my design a reality so that visitors can have a blast at your park!