In this essay, I will be telling you why and how my roller coaster design is the roller coaster you want to choose to get people to come to it. My roller coaster design will have a very high initial drop starting at 5 meters, with a heavier mass on the roller coaster being 60 kg. Then it will fall down the top of the initial drop, go up another hill that is set to 4.0 meters so it can still go up a high hill for extra excitement and then still have enough energy to make it over the hill. Then after that up and down my design has a big loop that is set at 3.0 meters high, then that loop will go down onto the ground to finish the race. My roller coaster will be the fastest, most exciting roller coaster that makes it to the end of the finish line. This roller coaster design will also not end where it starts because based on the energy that is produced it would be impossible for the roller coaster to finish the race where it started because of the height. 

That was a lot of information about my roller coaster in not very detailed responses so in this section I will explain to you the science and the design of my roller coaster. This will be in a very detailed way to help you understand and know why my design is the best one for you. Begin by setting the initial drop to 5 meters because the higher your initial drop is, the more energy will be produced. Also, the reason the mass would be set to 60 kg was that when the roller coaster is heavier it causes it to fall down the hill faster. This is because of the gravity pulling it down faster and the friction meaning even more energy would be produced. So it would be a faster and more fun ride that the people riding will be able to finish the ride having a great time. One way to prove that the roller coaster would have more energy with a taller start is by looking at my experiments and the data that came out of it. On the first trial when the initial drop height was set to 2 meters and the mass was at its default of 50g,  the total energy created was only 977. While the other trial was where the initial drop height was set to 5 meters and the default mass was set to 50g, the total energy got all the way up to 2,443. A massive difference in energy is produced just by setting the initial drop height to be higher. Which once again will give your riders a much more fun experience if the roller coaster they are riding can produce enough energy to finish the race at an enjoyable pace. This will all create more PE and KE from start to finish which means the total energy will increase, finishing the ride. Also, the law of conservation proves this method because when the car starts at the top it is full of potential energy and the higher it is the more PE there is. Then while it falls the energy can not be created or destroyed so the energy transfers to kinetic energy (KE) which means the roller coaster is in motion. That creates the total energy, KE + PE = TE (total energy). 

Now to talk about the mass. The mass plays a factor in this design too, and I think setting the mass to  more will make this a much better roller coaster and create more energy to finish the ride. I would want to set the mass of the roller coaster to 58 kg. The reason I would want to do that is that when there is more mass it would cause more energy to be produced. My experiments/trials prove that. In the first trial, I set the mass of my roller coaster to be at 40 kg. The roller coaster went up and down the hill and only ended with a total energy of 1,565. Then I did another trial and set the mass to 58 kg. The total energy got all the way up to 2,269. Once again a huge difference between just changing the mass of the roller coaster by 18 kg. That shows that if the mass of the roller coaster is set to a higher amount then it will have a ton of energy and will definitely be able to finish the race. 

Finally, the size of the hill. The size of the 2 hills I want to have will be 4 meters and 3 meters high. The first hill is set at 4 which is less than the initial drop height, then the next one which is a loop set to 3 meters high, once again being shorter than the hill before it. Those reasons are because the roller coaster will not be able to make it up those hills without one being smaller than the one before it. The trials/data will prove that. In my trials, I set my initial drop height to 4 meters. Then I set my first hill to be at 4 meters. The total energy produced in that roller coaster with both drops at 4 meters was not enough and the roller coaster did not finish the race. Then when I set the hill height to 3 meters and 2 meters both trials made it over the hill with more than enough energy to keep going down the roller coaster. Both trials that had made it over the hill still had kinetic energy and could finish the race but in the other trials where the hill was the same or higher than the initial drop the kinetic energy was at 0. Showing the relationship between the kinetic, potential, and total energy, and the hill height.

Those pieces of evidence talking about the mass, hill height, and initial drop height really show exactly why my roller coaster will be the best for your park and you will want to use it for your park to get more people to come pay. 

