The Gonzales family should use my roller coaster design because it meets the criteria they are looking for. It is exciting, and the cart makes it to the end of the ride. The Gonzales family should have a roller coaster with a drop height of 5.00 m, because it will increase the amount of potential energy that is used to get the cart to the end without stopping. For example in Trial 1, the initial drop height of the roller coaster was 5.00 m. Which caused the Potential energy at the top of the drop to be 2443 J, and the Kinetic energy at the top of the drop to be 0 J. This is important because the higher the Initial drop height, means the higher the total amount of energy. As the ride ended, the potential energy at the bottom of the drop was 2443 J, and the Potential energy at the bottom was 0 J. As the cart moves through the ride, the Potential energy converts to Kinetic energy, because as the Law of Conservation of Energy states, energy cannot be created or destroyed. The total amount of energy is the amount of Potential and Kinetic Energy in total. For example, In Trial 1, when the drop was 5.00 m, the total amount of energy was 2443 J. In Trial 4, when the drop was 2.00 m the total amount of energy was 976 J. They should also add a hill in order for it to be more fun for the riders. The trials showed that a hill height of 3.00 m would have a total energy of 2466 J. The hill cannot be higher than the initial drop height, otherwise the cart will not make it over the hill. In Trial 3, when the hill height was 5.00 m, the coaster car did not make it over the hill. In Trial 2, when the hill height was 2.00 m, the coaster car made it to the end of the ride, because the hill height was not taller than the initial drop height. If the Gonzales family added the 3.00 m hill, the ride would be more fun, but still make it to the end of the ride. The mass of the cart which holds the riders, should be 50 kg. Data showed that the higher the mass of the cart, the more total energy the cart would have. When the cart had a mass of 40 kg, the total amount of energy was lower. The mass of the cart has to be higher, in order for the coaster car to make it over the hill. The Gonzales family should use my roller coaster design because it meets the standards of the roller coaster they are looking for.