  My team's roller coaster is the best design with much exciting parts and will make it to the end of the ride without stopping. The Gonzales family should love my ride because it contains much thrill, high drops, and very powerful. 
  According to data from my simulations my initial drop height is 5 m. My roller coaster is way more exciting than others because it creates lots more speed from how high the initial drop is. Since my roller coaster will have lots of speed to it, it will have enough kinetic energy to ride up the next hill. As a result of having lot's of kinetic and potential energy this will make my roller coaster have more thrill and excitement to my ride. My roller coaster cart changes quickly along the tracks. When it's cart is at the bottom of the hill, it's moving it fastest. Since all of the potential energy has been converted to kinetic energy, which means tons a speed and tons of fun. The law of conservation of energy states that energy can change forms, but energy can't be created or destroyed. On my roller coaster energy changes from potential to kinetic energy and back again. My data states that the best height of a hill is 4 m. It's the best height for my hill because it will have enough kinetic energy to ride over the hill since the hill height isn't taller or the same height as my initial drop. My data from my simulations prove that the best car mass is 56 kg. The larger the mass the larger the momentum. You want a lot of momentum since that creates more kinetic energy and it will be harder to slow down so my roller coaster won't stop. So I believe that 56 kg is the best car mass for my roller coaster which makes my roller coaster safe and fun.
    In conclusion the Gonzales Family should follow my recommendations about my best roller coaster design. My best roller coaster design should conclude an initial drop height of 5 m, hill height 4 m, and best car mass as 56 kg. This will cause much excitement and thrill to many people and it will make it to the end of the ride without stopping.  