Dear Gonzales family,

I am writing today about why my rollercoaster is the better design. The reason for this assumption is that I have found many ways to make this rollercoaster the most fun, safe and can make it to the end of the track. 

I will start to talk about the Initial drop and hill heights. The initial drop has to be higher than the hill height because the rollercoaster will not make it over the hill if they are the same. I tested this by making the initial drop height 5m tall and the hill height also being 5m tall. When the rollercoaster started at the top of the initial drop, it had 2449J of Potential Energy and 0J of Kinetic Energy. Once the cars dropped down the hill, the carts used all of the Potential Energy and made it up to the top of the hill. Once the car was at the top of the hill, all of its Kinetic energy was forced back into Potential energy and was left with no more Kinetic energy to keep moving over the hill. That experiment shows that the hill height has to be lower than the Initial drop height otherwise the cars will not get over the hill.

The relationship between KE, PE, and total energy will affect everyone's ride when they are on the rollercoaster. The Law of Conservation of Energy is: Energy can not be created or destroyed. The higher the initial drop is, the more energy you will have, and based on the mass of the car, the faster it will go. What I mean by that is when the Energy is higher and the Mass is higher, the cars will move faster on the track. I also tested this out by having a starting initial drop height of 5m, the amount of total energy is 2938J, and the mass of the car is 60kg. This was the biggest mass I was able to test. When I tested the smaller mass of 40kg, and an initial drop of 5m tall, the total energy was only able to get up to 1959J. This can show us that the rollercoaster cars should have a bigger mass for the rollercoaster to be faster. 

One more thing I have been watching is how the energy is able to change from PE to KE. When the rollercoaster starts up higher it will have more PE at the top and more total energy all together. Once the cars start to move down the initial drop, the PE will get lower and will turn into KE which will get higher. The reason for that is because once the cars start to move, the KE will get higher because it's in motion. When the cars start to up the hill, the KE will get lower and the PE will get higher. The reason for this is because its gaining more energy when going up the hill so the KE will turn into PE.

I hope you will conseder my options and all the tests I took to find the best option for your future rollercoaster.
