            My Claim is that I can help the Gonzales family make a new and better roller coaster. In order to make a new and exciting roller coaster we needed to know how to make a roller coaster and all the parts that go into making a roller coaster. 
           One thing that goes into making a roller coaster is the potential and Kinetic energy. Potential energy is energy that is stored in an object and Kinetic energy is the energy an object has because of its motion. When you have an initial drop you start with all the potential energy (PE) has you start to go down the drop your PE transfers in Kinetic energy (KE). When you start at the top of a hill you will see that all of the potential energy is stored into that object. When you go down the hill you will see that the PE starts to transfer over the Kinetic because of it's motion. Potential energy and Kinetic energy always equal to the total energy stored in an object (PE+KE=TE). 
         Another thing we needed to know about making a new roller coaster is how we are able to finish the entire ride with just one initial drop. We found out that the initial drop needs to be higher than the hill in order to make it to the end. If you have a drop of 5.00 m and a hill of 5.00 m you aren't going to make it all the way because there isn't enough energy stored. On the drop the potential energy is the total energy and then decreases towards the bottom but on the top of the hill the potential energy and the kinetic energy equals the total energy. If we look at my add a hill data we can see that all the rides made it all the way through except the one that had the same hill height has the initial drop. If you look at the other hill heights they are all below 5.00 m and they made it all the way through to the end.    
       One last thing we needed to know was the mass and the relationship it has with PE and KE. The more your cart weighs on your ride the more potential energy it will have. The less your cart weighs the less energy your cart will have stored. The law of conservation of energy is that energy cannot be created nor destroyed. It can only transform from one form to another.An energy transformation is the change of energy from one form to another. Using one of my trials we can see that the less the cart weighs so lets say it weighs 40 kg then the amount of PE will be at 1958 J causing the cart to have less energy stored. Now lets say that it weighs 60 kg then the amount of PE will be larger at 2937 J. 
        These things that I have told you about are all things we are going to need in order to make a new and exciting roller coaster. You need to know the potential and kinetic energy , you need to know is how to make a ride that can finish all the way through. The last thing you need to know is the relationship between potential , kinetic and mass. All these things go into making a roller coaster. I think the Gonzales family should choose my ride because I will make sure that my ride is safe , fun and includes all things that go into a ride. 