In this essay I'll provide for you a new roller coaster for the Gonzales family theme park that's sure to be a great and exciting add on. I'm going to tell you how the science behind the roller coaster works and how people may find this roller coaster fun.

So for the initial drop part of the roller coaster I've decided to make it 5 meters high, and the more height the drop has the more total energy the whole ride has. Also the higher the height is the more PE and KE you will have in the ride. At the top the PE is 2447 J and at the bottom is 1 J. While the KE at the top is 0 J and at the bottom is 2445 J. The KE and PE tells us how much total energy is in the ride itself and how the energy transfers from PE to KE. Since the Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy can not be created nor dystroyed but it can be transferred so by the PE transfering to KE it follows the law. But the total energy of the ride is what the coaster starts with at the top of the hill. So the total amount of energy is equal to the PE and KE throughout the coaster.

For the Add a Hill portion of the roller coaster I've decided to make the hill 3.15 meter high. With the PE on top of the hill as 1547 J and the KE is 904 J. Since there's still KE near the top of the hill that gives it that force to make it over the hill. The reason why it's shorter than the initial drop height is because whenever the hill is either taller or the same height as the initial drop height the roller coaster can't make it up that high because it doesn't have enough energy. So having a smaller hill will help the coaster car get over the hill successfully. 

And finally for the Mass and Energy portion so depending on how heavy your coaster is the more or less PE and KE it will have during the ride. So for my roller coaster design I decided that the car mass would be 55 kg with the PE being 2673J and KE at the bottom being 2657 J. But if it had 45 kg as the mass of the car the PE would be 2214 J and the KE at the bottom would be 2188 J. Compared to each other 55kg Has more PE and KE so the more mass the more PE and KE.

As I conclude this essay I hope you take into consideration of how the roller coaster works and the science behind it, and hopefully make it the new add on to the Gonzales family theme park. To have the roller coaster be exciting and fun for people in the future.