Dear Gonzales Family: I have informed you that your new roller coaster is going to be built in such a manner that it will for sure function correctly without friction. My idea is that we start off the coaster really high up and have 3 loopy- loops, that will have the rider facing the ground three different times and then add a hill at the end that the roller coaster will overcome.

How will this work you may ask. It is easier than you might think, the coaster cart will be a total of 60 kg so it will have more energy. It will then start first with a 5(meter) initial drop height, this will follow up with a turn turning all the potential energy into kinetic, then will come its first loop. At the top of the first loop it will be a height of 4 (meters). I know the roller coaster will overcome this obstacle because, as long as the initial drop height is taller than than the loopy-loop it will have no problem going through it. Next comes the second loopy-loop. This obstacle is 3(meters) tall at the max point. The roller coaster will get through the obstacle because it is carrying its same energy as the initial drop height. Because in the Law Of Conservation it states energy cannot be created nor destroyed, meaning it would have the same amount of total energy, however there will be a mix of both potential energy and kinetic energy. Then comes the third loop. This loop has a height of 2 (meters). The roller coaster will have no problem going through this considering the Law Of Conservation will be in play. Lastly comes the 4.75 (meter) hill at the end of the ride. This is where all potential energy shifts toward kinetic energy to try and make its way up the hill. to get back to the start line this hill curves very hard to the left making the roller coaster go up the hill at a slower pace, but still making it to the top of the hill. But you may be thinking how can it get back up the starting point if they are at 2 different heights. While as I stated earlier the Law Of Conservation states energy cannot be created nor destroyed. Making it impossible for the roller coaster to make it back up to the starting point. So we added an elevator, where once the coaster is on top of it and has no more kinetic energy it will pull it back up towards the top until it is at 5(meters) high. It would then be the next peoples turn to go

In the end Science and the Law Of Conservation proves that my roller coaster will be fully functional and everyone will have a blast going on it.