My claim is that I can help the Gonzalez family make a safe and thrilling roller coaster. To have a safe roller coaster you have to make sure that the cart is safe and that the drops and twists are safe as well. You also need to have enough energy from the initial drop to make it all the way to the end of the roller coaster. When thinking of energy the only way for the cart to make it to the end is to have a high and fast initial drop. When the drop is higher there is more Potential energy stored. Then when the cart drops the stored PE converts into Kinetic energy allowing the cart to get to the end. In the roller coaster simulation the highest drop (5.00) had the total energy of 2443 and it was all potential energy at the top of the drop.

The next thing you need is a hill. When thinking of a roller coaster hill they usually give you air time and are really fun after the initial drop. When creating my design I wanted the hill to be as high as it could. But when you are building a hill, the hill cannot be higher than the initial drop. The hill also cannot be the same height. If the hill were higher or the same height the cart would not be able to get over it. This is because there is not enough stored energy from the drop to make it to the top of the hill that is the same or higher. 

When you have a hill that is a great height to make it over then it will be perfect for the roller coaster. When the cart is nearing the top of the hill the potential and kinetic energy evens out to equal the total energy. For example, when the hill was 4.25, at the top the PE was 2083 and the KE was 365 equaling to 2448.  As soon as the cart gets over the hill the potential energy starts to decrease again. In my simulator when I tested the 5.00 drop and the 5.00 hill the cart didn't make it over. But when I tested the 5.00 drop and the 2.00 it would be a boring ride.The best option to put the hill at is 4.25 because it was shorter than the 5.00 initial drop but high enough to still be thrilling. When thinking to both drops the potential energy starts with all the energy the roller coaster has.

 At the top the potential energy is the total energy and the KE is 0. then as the cart goes down the potential energy is 0 and the kinetic energy is the total. But when the energy converts it is never adding more energy. This goes with the Law of Conservation. The Law of Conservation states, ¨Energy cannot be created or destroyed This means that the total energy will always stay the same no matter if the potential energy is higher or the kinetic. 

The last thing you need for your roller coaster is the mass of the cart. The car with the greatest mass will have the greatest Potential energy at the top of the initial drop. The cart with the greatest mass also had the greatest kinetic energy at the bottom of the drop. In my simulation the 60 kg cart had the greatest amount of energy over the 40 kg cart. In conclusion you now know how roller coasters energy works and you now see that I can make a very fun and safe roller coaster. 