     To have a safe and fun roller coaster their are some constraints that need to be followed. Such as the height of the initial drop and hill, and the mass of the cart.  
     The height of the initial drop should be 5 meters high because the higher the the drop the more energy it will have. You want there to be the most energy because it will be able to make it through the whole ride without stopping. When the height was 2.5 m the total energy was only 1222 but when the height was at 5 m the total energy was at 2443. 
     The hill height has to be less than the initial drop because it will not make it over the high if it is not. When the initial drop was 5 m and the hill height was 5 m the cart did not have enough energy to make it over the hill but when the hill height was at 2.5 m the cart could make it over. This is because of the law of conservation of energy which says that energy can not be created or destroyed. The roller coaster will only be able to make it over the if it is shorter than the  drop because energy can not be created so it only has the amount of energy it starts with at the top of the initial drop. 
     The mass of the car should be 60 kg because the more mass their is the more potential energy that can be stored in the cart. That means more potential energy can get converted into kinetic energy which will make it be able to go farther with out stopping. When the mass of the cart was 40 kg the total energy was only 1956 but when the mass of cart was 60 kg the total energy was 2934. The more energy the longer the cart will be able to go for. 
     The kinetic energy plus the potential energy equals the total energy. At the top of the initial drop in initial drop data is on trial on the potential energy is 1222 and the kinetic energy is 0, the total energy is 1222. This effects the roller coaster because of it will only ever has as much energy as the total energy it starts with. As the cart is going down the hill the potential energy is getting converted into kinetic energy. 
     These are some of constraints of building a safe and fun roller coaster. 