Dear Gonzales family, i have run many test to figure out which roller coaster design is best and here i what i have found. depending on the PE that the initial drop and KE the hill height has the ride will work or won't work. The initial drop should be at least 5m or higher the hill must be shorter than the initial drop i think the hill being in between 3.83 and 4.00 would be best. The evdinence i have to support this is in trial 1,
in this trial i ran test to see which initial drop would be best for an exciting ride.I came to the conculison that having 5ms is the best to go with. Because it had the most PE that means that when going down it will have a lot of KE  making for a fast exciting ride, it will also  have enough energy stored to get over any hill less than 5m.

The reason why i suggest a hill shorter than the initial drop is because if the initial drop and hill are the same height that means that their will not be enough energy to get it back up the hill. This is proved in my data when the initial drop was set to 5m and the only thing i changed was the hill height. when the hill was 5m the PE at the top of the hill was 2429 while the KE was 20.That's because their simply was not enough energy and didn't make it to the end. While on the other hand when the hill was 4.44m the PE at the top of the hill was 2183. And the KE was 265 it also was able to make it over the hill this is because the hill was shorter than the initial drop and was given enough energy to make it all the way through.

Something you will notice is that the PE at the initial drop is the same as the total energy this is because of the laws of conservation. The laws of conservation says that energy can not be created nor destroyed. Which is why the total energy will forever stay the same and the higher it is the most likley it will make it to the end of the end of the roller coaster.

The last suggestion is to have a large cart mass 60kg or more, the reason for this is because based off the data i collected when the cart was at its lightest 40kg the PE at the initial drop was 1958. Which was the lowest out of all the other car masses and the KE at the drop was 1950 which was also the lowest number. While when the cart was 60kg the PE at the initial drop was 2937 the highest of all the carts PE and the KE at the drop was 2740 also the highest out of all the cart masses. This data shows that having a cart with more mass can make the ride faster and more enjoyable for the riders.

In conulsion depending on the PE that the initial drop and KE the hill height has the ride will work or won't work. i hope that this information that i gave you is helpful to your desicon.