When considering buliding a rollercoaster you have to consider the fun factor of it. That is what's important for the riders enjoyment but you also have to take in safety and science so I will actually work and be fun. So my rollercoaster design will be the best because I have processed all of these factors to make the best rollercoaster possible. First thing you have to do is make sure the rollercoaster works and that is where the science comes in. You are dealing with Potential Energy (PE) Kinetic Energy (KE) Total Energy (TE) and the law of conservation of energy. Which states that energy can not be created or destroyed it can only be transfered from one form of energy to another in a closed system which means the total energy will always stay the same. But what is total energy? Total energy is the total of all of the energy in a closed system in this case KE and PE. KE is the energy an object is currently using which has to do with speed and mass measured in Joules. PE is the energy stored within an object that is the possible energy to be used due to it's position it's also known as gravitational potential energy. Measured in Joules(J for unit). Depends on mass of the object and the height the object is above the ground and the amount of gravity on the planet you are standing on. So now I will tell you how this factors into the rollercoaster. Heigher initial drops mean higher PE and lower initial drops mean lower PE. As shown in my data for my trial in Initial Drop Data with an initial drop height of 5m and PE of 2443 J (KE of 0 J) at the top of the initial drop. But when I had a lower initial drop height in Initial Drop Data which was a drop height of 2m the PE was only 977 J (KE 0 J). When you look at the KE at the bottom it is also more. So if we look at those same trials the one with an initial drop of 5 m had 2442 J of KE at the bottom of the drop (1 J of PE). The trial with an initial drop height of 2 m there was 976 J of KE at the bottom (1 J of PE). This also shows the law of conservation of energy the energy is transfered from PE to KE but the TE always stays the same. As a car goes down a drop PE decreases and transfers to KE which in turn increases. So at the start it would all be PE and 0 J of KE in the middle of the drop about half of the TE would be PE the other half KE. Then at the bottom all/most of the energy would be KE and no/1-4 J of PE. If you are going to have a hill on the coaster it must be less than the initial drop height. For example in Adding Hills data there was a controlled variable of the initial drop height being 5 m and in the trial with a hill height of 4.75 m the car made it over but with the hill height at 5 m the car did not make it over. The last thing is mass which can effect energy. A greater mass means greater TE lower mass means lower TE. Like in trials for Mass & Energy Data when there was a car mass of 40 kg the TE was 1957 J but with a car mass of 60 kg the TE was 2936 J. So in conclusion you want a heigh drop height with a car with a heigh mass. The hill can be high but it must be less than the initial drop height. And I know my rollercoaster will be the best because I have taken the science, safety, and fun into consideration.