My roller coaster will be fun and exciting and will make it to the end of the ride without stopping by changing the initial drop of the car as well as the car mass, hill height and more! 

Increasing the initial drop of the car will make all the customers happy and will start at a greater speed because there is no friction throughout the whole ride. According to the Initial Drop Data, on trial 1 when the release height was 5 meters tall, there were more PE then KE at the top of the hill with 2,443 Joules for potential energy. At the bottom of the drop there was more KE then PE with KE having 2,442 Joules and PE only having 1 Joules (The total energy at the end was 2,443). The second trial where the released height started from 2 meters with only 977 Joules of PE but had no KE changed at the bottom of the drop with 977 Joules of KE and only 1 Joul of PE ( The total energy was 977.) The total energy also impacts the sum of both quantities that are equal in a system by the initial drop of the car will increase all the stored energy inside it, as well as making the car go faster by having more KE at the bottom of the drop which increases the speed of the car. 

Adding a hill after the initial drop of the car will not only make the customers even more happier, but will 
change the PE or the KE depending on the height of the hill. According to the Adding Hills Data, if the hill height is the same or higher then the initial drop, then it will not make it over the hill and the PE will stay the same with no adjustment to the KE at the top of the hill compared to the initial drop. But if the hill height is lower then the initial drop, it will not only make it over the hill, but there would be some KE but not as much as the PE at the top of the hill. According to trial one where the hill height was the same as the initial drop height with 2.5 meters, there was 1,223 Joules of PE and had the same amount of PE at the top of the hill but did not make it over. According to trial two where the hill height was 5 meters tall, there was 2,444 Joules of PE and had  725 Joules of KE with 1,720 Joules of PE at the top of the hill ( the cart also made it over the hill.) 

Another recommendation I have for the Gonzales Family is to adjust the car mass depending on how fast you want the car to go throughout the ride. According to the Mass & Energy Data. on trial one when the car mass weighted 40 kg, there was the same amount of PE at the top of the initial drop as the amount of KE at the bottom of the drop of 977 Joules. On another trial when the car mass weighted 60 kg, there was also the same amount of PE at the top of the initial drop as the KE at the bottom of the drop with 1,466 Joules. Increasing the mass of the car can both increasing the PE at the top of the drop, as well as the KE at the bottom of the drop which will help the car go faster throughout the ride.

Overall I believe that my team's current roller coaster design will be exciting and will make it to the end of the ride without any problems because of all the adjustments we have made throughout the ride by changing the mass of the car, as well as the initial drop height or hill height.

