Dear Gonzales family, I think you should pick my design for the roller coaster you want to put in your park and here is why. The ride will be fun and exiting but, also safe for everyone. I have learned with my experiments that I have been doing that you want the initial drop height to be higher so, it can produce more energy. I learned that you should have the initial drop height be higher than the hill you have on the roller coaster. And you want to have a car mass that is greater so, more energy will be produced.

I found that the initial drop height should be high because there will be more energy that is being produced over the drop. When the car is moving down the initial drop height there is more KE being produced over the ride. Data I found when I was experimenting was when the car was released at the height 5 meters, the car had 2442 Joules of KE. But, at the drop height of 3 meters, the car had 1465 Joules of KE at the bottom of the initial drop. This data shows that there was more KE at the end of the ride for the higher drop height of 5 meters. 

I found the initial drop height should be higher than the hills because the car has to have energy to make it to the end. I found the height of the hill has to have less PE at the top of the hill than the PE at the initial drop. My data shows that all of the hill heights that were less than 4.5 meters worked. But the 5 meter hill height did not work because PE at the top of the hill was 2202 J. And the initial drop height's PE at the top was 2199 J from my initial drop data. Also, in my trials where the hill height 5 meters did not make it, but the lower hills made it to the end. This shows that if the hill height is taller than the initial drop height then, the coaster won't make it to the end. 

I found that the mass of the car has to be heavier in order for the car to gain energy as it rides. I found that the more mass there was in the car, the more energy there was. In my trials I found that when the mass was 45 kg the total energy was 1992 J. But, in my trials where the car was 60 kg the total energy was 2644 J. This shows that the greater the mass the more energy will be transferred over time.

You should choose my safe, fun and, exciting roller coaster. The roller coaster should have a higher initial drop height, a hill that is lower than the initial drop, and a mass that is heavy. I hope you pick it because it will be the best design for the park and your customers. 

