the past few days I have been doing lots of test notes and data to find the best roller coaster that live up to expectation. like how the deigns will function use energy, making it to the end with out stopping, testing hills, and more. I have been test out how the weight of the car effects the ride. and I believe i have found the best design. one big thing i studied was the energy involved using kinetic energy (KE). KE is a energy that a object has do to its motion the fast the object moves the greater the kinetic energy. An object that is not moving has zero kinetic energy. then another energy is potential energy (PE). PE is stored energy. in a object do to its position its is gravitational measures is Jules depends on mass. the last energy we used is law of conservation. the law of conversation can not be created or destroyed but it can convert from one type of energy to another. all the energy works together because KE and PE are opposite so when goes down the other goes up and when you add that gives the total energy. on the roller coaster I design it starts up high in the air and the PE is very high do to the initial drop high. because The higher initial drop height the more PE and on the bottom there is more KE. the coaster we use is the heavyset coaster sitting a 60kg we did this cause the higher the mass of the car will give it more energy the 60kg car had a total energy of 2356. But the 40kg cart only had 1567 total energy. Because the wight of the car weighs it down to go faster. Then strait away that is very fast. It is a huge drop then there is a litle hill half the size of the drop. it is that size because the drop height has to be higher then the hill in order for it to go over and not go backwards. throughout the ride the total energy stays the same then on the bottom of the hill there is a big loop that uses the energy from the hill. Then there is three more little loops and when thats over you rap around to the bottom and that will be the end of the ride. my ride meets all of its requirements people who are pregnant. I call my ride deklan. hope you like it. 

