Dear Gonzales family, for your new roller coaster you will have to add a higher dropping point and a smaller hill than the drop. You will have to follow the Law of Conservation of Energy. The more the car weighs the more energy you will have in total.

The higher the drop point affects how much PE and KE you have while on the ride. When the drop height is lower than the hill height the car will be unable to make it over the hill. When I drop the car at 5.00m height the PE at the top was 2443j. At the bottom, the KE was 2442j. Another drop point was 2.50m the PE was 1222j at the top and the KE was 1221j at the bottom. This proves that the higher the drop point is the more energy the roller coaster has. When the drop height was 4.50m and the will was 5.00m the car was unable to make it to the end of the track since the hill height needed more energy than the drop. This helped us decide where we should start our roller coaster and where to put the hills.

Energy cannot be destroyed or created. When a car is dropped at 3.50m the PE was at 1710j and the KE was at 0j. As the car moves along the roller coaster the PE transfers into KE. Once the car gets to the bottom of the roller coaster the KE is at 1710j and the PE is at 0j. This shows us how the energy doesn't go away and more energy is not created. Since no energy is lost or added you follow the law of Conservation of Energy.

The car that had the most mass had more total energy than the cars with a smaller mass. When the weight of the car was 45kg the total energy was 1964j. The car that weighed 60 kg had 2642j. This proves that the more mass you have means that you will have more energy. When you have more PE you will start at a higher drop and have more total energy than the roller coasters that have a shorter drop. This means that we should start our roller coaster at a higher drop. 

When you are building the new roller coaster make sure that the hill height is smaller than the drop. You will also need to keep in mind that energy cannot be created or destroyed. Also the more the car weighs the more total energy it will have.