Rollar coaster essay:
Today I am gonna be talking about why diffderant roller coasters have different heights and why there are different things and attractions on the roller coaster involving density,kentic energy,and potential energy on a roller coaster, energy changes from potential to kinetic energy and back again many times over the course of a ride. Kinetic energy is energy that an object has as a result of its motion. All moving objects possess kinetic energy, which is determined by the mass and speed of the object.

So on a roller coaster, energy changes from potential to kinetic energy and back again many times over the course of a ride. Kinetic energy is energy that an object has as a result of its motion. All moving objects possess kinetic energy, which is determined by the mass and speed of the object so that means the reason the roller coaster has to start high and it goes down for loop it because otherwise if you didnt you would go half way up loop and then you would just roll back because you were not able to get enough speed or as some people would say kinetic energy.

So why do we need kinetic energy? Kinetic energy is what makes the object move. Many rides use the transfer of potential energy to kinetic energy to move along the track. As the motor pulls the cars to the top, lots of potential energy is built up. This is released when the roller coaster reaches the top. If we dont have that we can't even ride the roller coaster without that depending on how high it goes up it has a maximum speed always so if you go 30 feet up then you can have a certain amount of maximum speed with is called kinetic energy because it was makes it move so people have to try and test the roller coatster before just putting it out because they have to do the right measurements so they can reach their max speed.

Without downforce you would not be able to do any of the cool tricks on it but also you would be going really slow but that's for people who want to go slow and you see how the kid roller coasters sometimes go fast but not as fast thats because its not getting enough downforce to actually be able to go fast and that's why they just make it small because its fast enough to enjoy but now fast enough to like do trick or any of that but also without it for a roller coaster, gravity pulls down on the cars and its riders with a constant force, whether they move uphill, downhill, or through a loop. The rigid steel tracks, together with gravity, provide the force needed to keep the cars on the arching path as they move through the loop.

So that is why energy is so important inside of a roller coaster because without that energy you won't be able to do anything and it won't be as fun without any of that so thanks for reading this essay.
