Dear Gonzales family, 
     You should build our design because it works well, and people will like it. Here I will prove to you all of the things I just said with data from test runs, logic, and the relation ships between energy and the track. 

     First our design works well, our design was built with speed and success in mind. In our roller coaster design we start off with a high 5 meter drop that will give the roller coaster cart enough energy to follow through with the rest of the coaster. In one of our test drops when the cart fell from 5 meters it went through the entire coaster because when the PE at the top of the coaster is higher, the faster the roller coaster cart will go. So when that cart fell from 5 meters the PE at the top was 2443. When we dropped the roller costar cart from 2 meters it didn't go as fast or as far and make it to the end of the track because the PE at the top was 977. So you should use our design because we have a higher drop and the roller coaster cart makes it to the end of the track successfully. 
     
      Seconded I want to talk about how our roller coaster works well because of the hill. In a roller coaster we all know there are many ups and downs to make it more fun for the rider in our roller coaster we added a hill after the drop out hill is 2 meters tall. Our hill is 2 meters tall so that the roller coaster cart can get over it and it wont stop mid way. In our test drops when we had our hill at 2 meters the cart went over it without a problem because it had enough energy form our 5 meter drop to go over the 2 meter hill. But when we had out hill also at 5 meters the cart failed to go over because it didn't have enough energy form the 5 meter drop to go over it. When adding hills in roller coasters you need to make sure the initial drop is higher then the hill or the cart will not be able to go over it. You should use our design because we added fun and successful hills into our coaster. 

     Third and lastly I wanted to talk about mass and energy relating to our roller coaster. The mass of the cart effects the energy that the cart has for the ride. Our car mass is 60 because the more mass the cart has  the more energy it has to go faster and farther. When we tested the cart mass at 60 it got to the bottom easily because it was heavier vs when we tested it at 40 then it took longer to go down the track. proving that you should use our design because out coaster will go farther then others.

     That is the end of my letter to you I hope this helps you decide that our design is the best and it will work very well. 
