 Gonzales Family, 

This is what I would do for your family so you can build the best roller coaster design for you . The initial drop cannot be shorter than the hill because there is not enough KE to make it over the hill. So in this case, your original design won't work. But I will and can explain to you what could work. 
       
       The first reason is, that there is not enough energy. In my data we can see that it proves it doesn't work. Not only that but energy cannot be either created or destroyed. My data that was observed during the SIM activity says that the initial drop needs to be greater than the hill height. If the Original hill height is 3.7m the PE at the top of the drop is 2447J. At the bottom of the hill it's 1841J. This was put into the SIM and showed that it allowed the Roller coaster car to go over the hill. When the Initial drop is the same height of the hill the initial drop is a 2449J. At the top of the hill the PE is 2448J and at the bottom of the hill the PE is 1. This is because it transfers into KE. We put the hill height into the SIM and it turned out that the same hill height and drop height does not allow the car to go over the hill. So because of this, we would need to have a roller coaster with a greater drop height than the hill.

      My second reason is the car mass. We see in the data that the greater the car mass is the more total energy there is because KE+PE=TE. With the car mass of 40kg the total energy is 1955J while the roller coaster car that has a mass of 60kg has a total energy of 2933J. That's almost 1000J more energy (because PE+KE is overall higher which = high TE). So because of this we will also have a roller coaster car that has a greater mass. So, there is more total energy that will be able to travel throughout the roller coaster. .

       My last reason is the hill height. My data has gathered the idea that in order to have the roller coaster car make it to the end of the ride total the hill needs to be smaller. My data shows that at hill height of 5m has a total energy of 2449 but it doesn't have enough to get over the hill. While the hill height of 2.5m has a total energy of 2443 it will make it over the hill which will definitely be more enjoyable to the riders. So to work with that we will make the hill shorter than the initial drop.  
       
       In conclusion. To make the roller coaster that is most enjoyable to the riders, we will make a roller coaster that has a greater initial drop, and shorter hill than the initial drop and a roller coaster car that has a greater mass. All of this will create a higher TE that creates a successful roller coaster. I hope my idea fits what you guys as a family would like. Let me know if you would like to choose my idea as your final design.