Dear Gonzales family,

       Me and my classmates have been researching the best and the safest roller coaster for you. I have found one of the best tools you have to use your energy is the Law of Conservation of Energy. This law is where energy cannot be created or destroyed, but it can be changed to different forms (kinetic, potential, thermal and sound), when building a roller coaster, take this into consideration. 

        The start of the roller coaster is called the initial drop, this part of the roller coaster gives you enough energy to complete the coaster. I say this because what we have found that the higher the initial drop is, the higher the amount of energy. So I am asking for you to increase your initial drop height so you will have enough energy to enjoy the coaster. Some evidence I have to support my claim is during my first trial, I had made my initial drop height at 5, the total amount of energy I had was 2443 joules, but during my third trial I had my initial drop height at 2.76 and my total amount of energy was 1347 joules. I believe this evidence supports my claim because in trial one my drop height was higher than the height in trial three which made the energy levels higher in one versus three. 

The second part of the roller coaster is the hill, the hill on the roller coaster is what contracts mass. Mass is what's needed to keep the coaster moving. We have found that the hill height has to be lower or sometimes equal to the height of the initial drop, the reason for this is because of the Law of Conservation of Energy. This law means you cannot create just enough energy to get over the hill, you need enough energy from the initial drop to make it over the hill for the coaster to work. My evidence to support this claim is in trial four, I had 4.61 meters of hill height, versus in trial three I had 2.23 meters in hill height, my energy levels were 2445 joules for trial four I had 2445 as well, meaning that it does not matter the amount of hill height, it only matters the amount of hill height is less than the initial drop height. 

In conclusion, following the Law of Conservation of Energy, this will be your biggest help. I hope reaching out was helpful to you and your family. 