I think that my design would be the most enjoyable ride for your park. My design has 4 inversions and it starts on a big drop that is guaranteed to give you the most speed. The roller coaster will carry speed because every time you go on an inversion you gain speed. You gain speed by turning the KE into PE and then the PE will turn back into KE giving you speed this speed will carry you through the next inversion.

The drop height in my trial was 5.00m this was high enough to provide enough total energy to take you through the ride. The PE at the top of the hill was 2934 and as it moved down the hill all of that energy transferred into KE you can see this because at the bottom of the hill the KE was 2932 while the PE was 2.

The PE at the top of the drop affects the amount of KE and TE you will have. The TE effects whether you will make it through the ride. For example your PE and KE at the top and bottom of the drop must be greater than your PE and KE at the top and bottom of the hill if it is not you will not make it over the the hill. This is all possible because of TE.

The drop height in my trial was 5.00m this was high enough to provide enough total energy to take you through the ride. The PE at the top of the hill was 2934 and as it moved down the hill all of that energy transferred into KE you can see this because at the bottom of the hill the KE was 2932 while the PE was 2.

I also tested the different hill heights and how they would effect the ride. The hill height effects the amount of PE you will have at the top of the hill. The more PE you have at the top of the hill affects the amount of KE you will have by the end of the hill. In my trials 4.01m was the best hill height. This is because you have enough energy to make it up the hill. 

The law conservation of energy plays into roller coasters because the energy always has to go somewhere and this rule applies when PE turns into KE. For example in my data trials the PE at the top of the hill was 2934 but at the bottom of the hill it was 2 and the KE was 2932 so this proves that the energy was transferred and didn't get destroyed it also proves that energy can't be created.

The car mass would be 60kg because the more mass you have the more speed you will have. The mass affects the PE and the PE affects the KE because when moving down a drop all of the PE will turn into KE.
The more mass you have the more PE you will have which makes the ride faster.

