      My recommendation to you Gionzales family is you make your intial drop height 5m tall. Your hill is going to have to be less then the height of your intial drop so I would recommend a height of about 3m. For the mass of you car I recommend about 60kg in weight based on my investigations.
       The reason I said the height of your intial drop should be so tall is so you can get the most energy out of it and it will be more fun to to ride. According to my data when the intial drop was 3m the amount of potential energy  there was, was 1466J compared to the 5m intial drop height which was 2932J of potential energy. So as you can see here the greater of the intial drop, the greater potential energy giving you more energy, the potential energy is transferred into Kinetic energy once the coaster car starts moving. In my data the intial drop of 3m had 1465J of Kinetic energy at the end of the drop, where the 5m intial drop had 2930J of kinetic energy. As you can see the greater height allowed for the potential energy to change into kinetic energy with more than the smaller height amount, making the greater height a better option for your roller coasters intial drop.
       The next part in your roller coaster is going to be a hill. I recommend a height of about 3m, you maybe wondering why it can't be higher then the intial car , and we'll it can but then the coaster car can't make it over the hill, not allowing it to finish the track. I don't even recommend having it super high because the higher it is the less kinetic energy you have making the ride go slower that's why I recommend 3m. According to my trials the hill of 3m had 1768J of potential energy and 582J of kinetic where as 4.5 had 2276J potential energy but only 73J of kinetic energy. So you can see there will be more speed if your hill is shorter but you also want it to be enjoy able so 3m is a good in between height.
       The mass I recommend for you coaster car is 60kg because in my trials I found that the greater the mass of your car the more energy it will have. For example, one of my test was with a car that was 45kg the amount of energy it had at the beginning was 2182J. Where as the amount the car with a mass of 60kg had 2934J of potential energy at the intial drop height. So you can see the coaster car is more likely to go faster if it has a greater mass.
        As you can see Gonzales, the heights and masses I have provided you are good for everything you are looking for in the roller coaster. 