For the Gonzales family I recommend that they use a high hill height and lower hills afterward to in the beginning to gain speed but then towards the end to lower the speed.So that the ride can come to a nice slow stop, but also making the hills high enough to attract customers.
For the Gonzales to know how much potential energy they need at the top of the hill for the initial drop/release height to get the best kinetic energy and potential energy for a grand total. For the highest height of 5.0 the potential energy at the top of the initial drop was 2443 and 0 kinetic energy, and at the end of the ride the kinetic energy was 2442 at the bottom of the initial drop and for a total of 2443 energy. The ride will be able to slow itself if the car has enough weight to bring it up and over the hills at a high speed but enough so that at the end of the ride it can come to its own complete stop. I would say the best mass/weight for the car would have to be 54/56 kg. Because they still have a high number for the total energy but its not too high that the car will need to have manual control for it to be able to stop. This is all important if the Gonzales want to run well and if they to be able to have high hills and other attachments to their ride. But also by knowing how heavy the cart should be how high the hill has to be to get over other hills and be able to come to a smooth and slow stop at the bottom of the ride. To also ensure safety of the riders. At the of hill the cart(s) with 54 and 56 kg seem able to gain speed but also slow down quite a bit from there starting energy. From 54 kg potential energy at the initial drop of 2194 to the kinetic energy. At the end of the ride would be 2188 and the 56 kg potential energy at the initial drop of 2275 and the kinetic energy at the end of the ride would be 2269. A good hill height to reach maximum energy would be 1964 potential energy and at the end of the initial drop the potential energy will be 1782 and the kinetic energy would be 182. For a grand total of 1964 ending energy so the same as the start but this number in energy will still be able to reach a good steady stop. 
For the Gonzales I think they should start with a high hill height and initial drop but then make the carts mass medium to low so that the car isn't to heavy. So that it will not be able to stop at the bottom but not too light where it wont really move so just find the right mass and then most of all make sure its safe. And enjoyable for all customers that come on their new rides. 