Dear, the Gonzales Family, 

   Hello, the Gonzales Family I am going to be representing a roller coaster I have created with my team. We will be discussing what makes it a great coaster to have and how to be safe with what we are doing per se. But will explain how the one we present to you will be a great ideal to have also, we will specialize in how the energy, mass, and height of the coaster and how will all work together to make it a fantastic roller coaster. Also so you can enjoy yourself on the ride!
   The roller coaster should have the PE (potential energy) KE, (kinetic Energy), and the mass. The roster I present is going to be called the Full throttle, and for the height, it will reach up to 4.53m, and while it comes through,  the PE at the top will be 2215 and the KE will be 0. While it's come around the coaster will have 
 a drop and with that, the PE now becomes 1 and the KE becomes 2214 which is good pretty good. The reason it´s believed to be good is because of the tension between the energy and the mass. If you have the right amount of energy with the KE then it can end up making your ride even faster but not too fast to the point where it can kill you but just enough to have a great time. Anwyas next, while the drop occurred there will be a hill next, the height of the hill decreases with -20 from the drop before, and with that, the PE rises again and the KE falls once more. But before it does the PE at the top of the hill is going to have an Energy of, 2168 and KE is now 844. and while going down the total is 2220 the same as the PE. And lastly, the Mass and Energy come into all of this to bring it all together. The car mass will be 58 (kg) with a PE of 2575 and while the KE drops down to the end of the roster itś going to be 2566 which brings the total to 2575 still the same as always. 
   Now you might be thinking to yourself and saying what does all of this have to do with anything about the roller coaster, well that´s what iḿ here for. With all of the tihng´s i have it because of we want to be safe with the roller coaster, and also make it fun!
   mkm