Dear Gonzales family, 

I am writing to you today about my roller coaster design and why i think my design is better. I am not quite sure if you have considered what happens to your roller coaster and the roller coaster cars with KE ( Kinetic energy) , PE ( potential energy), and TE (total energy). 
If you have that's great, but if you haven't i feel the need to inform you that those three energy's are extremely important when it comes to building a safe, and enjoyable roller coaster.
 roller coasters require a lot of force and when you ride a roller coaster it feels like your defining gravity. 

gravity (the pull of the earth) can cause the roller coaster to not be able to go upside down, meaning that the roller coaster would just go back when it got to a certain point, that's why KE and PE are so important. 

the less gravity means the more KE and PE. KE + PE = TE. total energy of a roller coaster always stays the same. it never moves or increase/ decreases because the amounts of KE and PE added up, never change. 

the mass of the car is also very important because after the initial drop of the roller coaster, if the mass is too heavy the car will not go over the other hills.
Or if the hills are taller than the initial drop no matter how less mass or how much mass the car has it will not go over the hill. 
initial drop is a big part of how the roller coaster will operate. if you don't build it correctly, the roller coaster most likely will not work and will have to be either destroyed or rebuilt. 



The drop heights effected the PE in my data trials because when the roller coaster cart is on top of the track.
 the PE is high and then when the cart starts going down the PE went down and the KE had started to rise. 
the total energy stayed the same the entire time when the car was at the top, and once the cart reached the bottom. KE + PE = TE. 

kinetic energy is always at 0 from the inital drop. once the car reaches the bottom the KE will rise and the PE will start lowering but the PE never reaches anywhere near 0.
Total energy is always the same. potential energy always starts and finishes in the 2000s and the ke finishes in the 1000s.

While creating a roller coaster, if you make hills after the inital drop that are higher than the inital drop the car will not go over the hill. 
The car will be pulled back down to the bottom of the hill or go all the way back to the start of the inital drop. 

You have to make the hills lower than the inital drop otherwise the roller coaster is useless and the car will not go over the hill. 

Mass measures the amount of matter that an object has, the more matter an object has, the more massive or the bigger it is. 

Mass plays a big part in roller coasters because of the effects it can end up with. Mass of the car is going to predict how fast the roller coaster car goes and it also predicts how well the roller coaster will process. 

Speed is the rate an object travels over a distance and describes how fast something is moving.
 speed also plays a big part in roller coasters because it relies on how much mass the car will have so the mass determines the speed the cars will go. 

Law of Conservation and Energy: energy can not be created or destroyed but, it can convert from one type of energy to another. 
in a closed system total energy (of all kinds) is always going to be the same. energy in a roller coaster is constantly converted from one kind of energy to another over and over again. 

A pattern that i have noticed while doing my trials and making my observations is that the bigger the mass of the car means more energy to push the car along the tracks. 
PE and TE are almost always close to the same amount. 


In conclusion this is some detail of why i think that my design is going to be the best for your family.
