Roller Coasters need to be fun, exciting, and most of all safe. Roller coasters have to be safe and that all starts when making your coaster. The first thing that will happen on this coaster this the initial drop, the drop is where you get the energy to keep the ride going over all the hills. The main two types of energy are potential and kinetic. These two energy types are in a relationship, so they switch. At an initial drop height of 5.00M the PE (potential energy) was 2443J (Joules) and the KE (kinetic energy) was 0J. At the end of the drop the PE was 0J and the KE was 2443J, both KE and PE add up to be TE (total energy). The TE should be what the PE was at the start of the drop and what the KE was at the end of the drop. As you can see the PE and KE just switch when it comes to initial drops. If you didn't have PE on your coaster and if you didn't have KE when the coaster start there would be no speed because you would have no height which is where PE and KE come from. PE and KE are both very important to a roller coaster. If you didn't have KE your ride would have no energy at the end. When an apple falls to the ground it has speed, the apple start with PE but as it falls it gains KE. Now think of a roller coaster at the top of the drop you have a lot of PE but as the ride gets closer to the hill or the end you lose most of your PE and the PE turns into KE.
As your car moves down the drop, you lose that PE and get KE but as you go up the hill your KE turns back into PE at the top of the hill, as you then go down the hill you lose that PE but that PE turns into KE and it is doing this the whole ride. Energy is a very cool thing because when you are on the coaster no new energy can be created or ruined the only thing that can happen is the PE and the KE switching back and forth never in your ride are you getting new energy or ruining energy it is always switching. When you are making the coaster you have to remember the hill height and the drop height if your hill height is  3.37M and your drop height is 3.00M your car will no make it to the end of the track because your hill is too high and you don't have enough energy. With a car mass of 60kg you have 2937J of PE at the top of the drop and 2930J of KE at the bottom of the drop. The more mass the more energy and that means you will also go faster because of how the energy changes. KE and PE both work together to make the coaster work and ride smoothly. at a drop of 2.94M the PE was 1436J and 0J of KE but at the end of the ride there was 0J of PE and 1436J of KE showing that PE and KE switch during the ride. PE+KE=TE(total energy). Total energy it the KE and PE added together.