My teams roller coaster will be one of the most succsessful coasters in the whole park because, not only is it fun and thrilling, it has the science behind it to help make this ride a thrill.

The way my ride works is as you are about to board you are brought to the first drop of my ride. This drop is (in my model) 5.00 m tall, in my research when  my intial drop height was 5.00 m tall it produced 2443 J of PE before the drop. As you the rider gets through the intial drop and going down you will hit the first hill. This hill is 2.50 m tall. I made this hill this height so as you get up the hill you will not be losing a tone of KE. This means our ride will go faster because as our car moves down the track all of that PE on the top if the intial will convert into KE. This was proven in my expirement (intial drop) there was 2443 J of PE at the top of the drop, at the bottom of my drop the PE was at 1 J and the PE was at 2442. The energy all adds up this because of the law of consevation of energy wich states that energy can not be created or destroyed it just is converted. I made this drop so the KE would have enough J of energy to get over the hill. see I did this because in one of my expiremnts I made my hill to big (5.00 m). When the car was going up the hill all of its  KE was converted to PE and the car was stuck and had no motion. All of my stored up PE started to convert back to KE as the car started to roll back down the hill. This showed me that the hill height had to be less than the drop height. There is one last thing I had to make sure to mention is the mass of my car. I made the mass of my car in my model 50 kg to give it more PE to convert to KE to really make sure it will make it over. See I tested three cars will three different masses 40 kg,50 kg and 60 kg. As I tested these weights I noticed that the higher weights had the most J of energy. I belive this is because as the car has a higher mass it makes the car more dense this making the weight of gravity pull down on it causing more energy. I chose 50 kg to be safe to make sure it gets over and to make sure it dosent go to fast. This is what ive learned about my coaster.