To the Gonzales family. 

This is the Angle roller coaster company, and im going to tell you about the coolest roller coaster ever. I will explain the science behind it and what there will be(hills and drop height, plus the mass of the coaster).

The initial drop will be at 50 meters because it will get a lot PE that will turn into KE for really fast speeds. The more PE there is the more KE there will be, I know this because in one of my test the amount of PE on the top of initial drop was 1956, and the amount of KE at the bottom of drop was 1954. This means the PE transfers to KE when the roller coaster is going down the initial drop.
 
I am going to add 2 hill, one will be 43 meters and the other 39 meters. The hills have to be below the height of the initial drop because if the hills are higher or the same of the initial drop, the coaster will not make it over the hill. This is because in one of my tests I had the hill at 5 meters and the initial drop at 5 meters. The coaster did not make it over the hill because the hill and drop were the same height. I want the hills to be 40 meters because they are tall but not tall enough for the coaster to make it over. The reason I want them tall is because the higher the hill, the more PE. On my 4th test it shows that the hill height is 4.10 meters, and has a PE of 2014 at the top of the hill. My third test has a height of 2 meters and has a PE if 981. This shows that the higher the hill, the more PE which also means more KE as explain previously. 

Also, the mass of the roller coaster has to be above 55 kg or more. The mass of the roller coaster (in kg) effects the amount of total energy. If the coaster has a higher mass the more energy. This has been proven from my 3nd and 4th tests in Mass & Energy data, the mass in the third was 60 kg and had a total energy of 2934. The 4th test had 55 kg of mass and had the total energy of 2690. This shows that the more mass the more total energy. 

With these amazing features and that it will go fast, this is the best roller coaster. I have put a lot of thought into this and hope these recommendations will be helpful. 

Sincerely the Angle company.
