Hello Gonzales family I hope you're doing well. I'm writing to propose a roller coaster design that could sustain movement until the end of the ride without any abrupt stops. First we need to start with the roller coaster car. I propose that the car be 45 pounds. I propose this because the more mass an object has the more energy it exerts, having less weight on the tracks will allow the passengers to have a fun ride without the roller coaster reaching dangerous speeds. This also allows more passengers to ride and less counterweight needed for the coaster to stay on the rails. Now onto the main attraction the roller coaster itself. I propose a roller coaster with a 5 meter drop at the beginning for a thrill right at the beginning. Having a steep drop also allows enough potential energy to be built so that the car can continue moving over hills without stopping. This is shown to be effective by my various trials where I found that the higher the drop height the more potential and eventually kinetic energy the car had.  Then my proposed roller coaster should have a 4.5 meter hill, this would allow people to feel like they're on top of the world. Having the proposed drop height be 5 meters paired with the 4.5 meter hill will allow enough potential energy so that the car can get over the hill, turning the potential energy at the top of the hill to kinetic energy as it reaches the bottom. Finally the roller coaster should have a steep drop straight down, this would help burn some of the excess potential energy and help the tracks absorb some kinetic energy through friction. I've seen this work to in my simulations, due to the fact that energy cannot be created or destroyed only transferred.  Then almost at the bottom there should be ridges so that more energy is absorbed and the car can come to a steady stop which helps decrease the chance of whiplash. This can help the car come to a steady stop because some of the cars energy will be transferred to the ridges. In short I propose a roller coaster with a car that weights 45 lbs, starts out at a 5 meter drop, then has a 4.5 meter hill, and finally has a steep drop with ridges at the bottom under the wheels to absorb traction. Thank you for reading my proposal and I hope you select my roller coaster design.