   Picture a roller coaster. What does it have to make it interesting? What does it have to make it work well? My rollercoaster, Goliath, will has the key components to make it work well, and boost ratings at any theme park. To make sure that Goliath will be able to work, I used the Law of Conservation of Energy, which states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. I also used Energy transformations between Potential Energy, and Kinetic Energy. To make sure that Goliath is interesting, I started it out with a high initial drop of 5 meters, and add a hill of 4.75 meters. This way the roller coaster could make it over the hill. I've also made the mass of the roller coaster cars 55kg.
   The way to determine the best way for a roller coaster to work is to understand the relationship between Potential Energy, Kinetic Energy, and Total Energy. At the top of the Initial drop, the PE is equal to the TE. Once the roller coaster starts to go down the hill, the PE converst to KE, which then at the bottom of the initial drop leaves 1 J of PE and the rest are KE. But this will still equal the TE. This is because energy cannot be created nor destroyed, so the energy gets converted to one form of energy, to another. An example of this is from my Initial Drop Data, Trial 1. The initial drop had 2443J of PE. Once the rollercoaster went down the hill, the PE converted to KE, till there was 1J of PE left and 2442J of KE. The TE always equaled 2443J. This is helpful when trying to design a roller coaster because understanding the relationship of PE, KE, and TE will help make your roller coaster more exciting and functioning. 
   The reason I've made the height of the hill 0.25m less then the height of the intial drop is not just due to thrill factors. This is also to make sure that the roller coaster can make it up the hill with enough KE. If a rollercoaster's intial drop height is less then or equal to the height of the hill, the rollercoaster will not make it over the hill. An example of this is is from my Adding Hills Data, Trial 3. The height of the hill was 4.5 meters, which had 2204J of PE. The hill had 2194J of PE, which caused the roller coaster to not go up the hill. This shows that a rollercoaster with an initial drop less then or equal to the height of the hill will not make it over the hill because the amount of PE on top of the hill has to be less then for the roller coaster to make it over the hill. 
   The reason I've made the mass of the roller coaster cars 55kg is so that way they can make it over the hill with more energy. You see, a roller coaster with more mass on their cars will have more potential energy. An example of this is from my Mass and Energy Data, Trials 1 and 4. Trial 1 had the mass of the roller coaster cars at 40kg, whereas Trial 4 had the mass of the roller coaster cars at 60 kg. Trial 1's TE was 978J. Trial 4's TE was 1468J. This shows that a roller coaster with a greater mass will have more TE, which will equal more PE and more KE, causeing the ride to go faster, which will make the ride more exciting.
   The Goliath will be the next hit thing. With the scientific data, the thrill factor of speed, and the Law of Conservation of Energy, this roller coaster will soon have lines of hundreds, thousands of people waiting to ride it. This concludes my reasoning for why the Gonzales family should consider adding theGoliath to their theme park.