What parts of the roller coaster will affect how good the roller coaster will be? the lower the mass but higher the release height, but the smaller hill, will be the best roller costar design. Because your kart will be able to go over the hill, and it will be able to have enough energy to go through the whole part of the ride. 

The initial drop matters, but will the different heights it released affect it?
Yes if you have a taller height then the more total energy it will have. Also the higher the kart is the faster it will drop down the initial drop. If you have more mass then the kart went slower down the initial drop. If you release your kart from 5m, then that height will have the most total energy at 2932J. Comparing it to one of the lower heights like 2.8m you have a total energy only of 1693J. Also the higher the kart is the faster it will drop down the initial drop. If you have more mass then the kart went slower down the initial drop. So the higher the release height, the more total energy it will have in the end if it didn't have a larger mass. 

When you add a hill to your roller coaster, the height of your initial drop will affect if it goes over or not. The larger the car mass, the more PE and KE and total energy it had. And if you had a smaller mass then there was less energy it had each time it went over the hill. If you had a cart with the same mass but similar hill heights then the total energy will be almost the same each time. If you have a kart that has a hill height of 2m your total energy will be 1346J. But if you have a hill height of 2.4 then your total energy will also be 1346. And both of them made it over the hill. So when you add a hill to your roller costar add a hill with a little bit of a smaller hill height if you have the same initial drop height for each hill.

The mass and energy are also affected by diffrent masses. The lower the mass the lower your total energy will be. It's a little more diffrent because the PE at the top of the initial drop has the most energy. if you had a car mass of 44kg, at the top of the initial drop it would have 1077J, but the total energy is only 1072. But if you had a car mass of 55kg, the PE at the top is 1347J, but the total energy is also 1347kg. So it's diffrent. But the Larger the moss the more energy it has each time. And the smaller the mass the lower the energy is. 

So I believe that the lower the mass but higher the release height, but the smaller hill, will be the best roller costar design. Because your kart will be able to go over the hill, and it will be able to have enough energy to go through the whole part of the ride. 






