The recommendations I would like to make to the Gonzales family are recommendations that are coming from data and energy analysis. All of the data collected are being recorded on behalf of the law of conservation of energy and mass. I would like to recommend and explain the science behind my team's current roller coaster design to help the Gonzales family have a fun, fast, and enjoyable roller coaster.

One of my recommendations that explains the science behind my current roller coaster refers to The law of conservation of energy states that within a closed system, energy can change form, but it cannot be created or destroyed. In other words, the total amount of energy remains constant. On a roller coaster, energy changes from potential to kinetic energy and back again many times over the course of a ride. Which leads to my recommendation, since energy changes from potential to kinetic energy and back again many times over the course of a ride, it would be great to have a car of a high mass so the amount of potential energy is more and the amount of kinetic energy that is produced is more. Looking at my data collected from the Mass and Energy testing, the car with the highest mass (60kg) has the most PE at the top of initial drop (J1468) and KE at the bottom of drop (J1413) which leads to the most total energy (J1468). This is a valid recommendation because we can compare the car at (60kg) to a car at (40kg) which only has (J978) of PE at the top the initial drop and (J978) of KE at the bottom of the drop and (J978) total energy. 

Another recommendation is that the greater the height, the more gravitational potential energy the roller coaster car has. Gravitational potential energy is transferred to kinetic energy if the car falls towards the ground. So, a large height could be a great thing for a roller coaster when wanting to add speed, and freight to a person riding it. Also, looking at Initial drop Data I can say that the greater release height leads to a greater gravitational potential energy that changes to a greater KE energy at the bottom of the drop, leading to more fun ride for riders. I say this because a release height of 5m has a PE of J2443 at the top of inital drop and a KE of J2442 at the bottom of initial drop and has J2443 of total energy. Comparing to a release height of 3m which has a J1466 of PE at the top of initial drop and J1465 of KE at the bottom of initial drop, which only has J1466 of total energy.



