                Recommendations for the Gonzales family about your best roller coaster design. The roller coaster will be exciting and make it to the end without stopping. For this to happen you need the initial drop to be higher than the hill. 
          
          First, you need a height that is higher than the hill so let's put it at 5.00m for the initial height and 3.00m for the hill. This way the cart will be able to make it over safety and create an exciting experience for the riders. Using the data I have collected from Initial drop when it was at 5.00m there was a lot more PE and KE resulting in more TE all together because PE+KE+TE making is a better ride for riders to enjoy. 

            Secondly, using the data I have collected from adding hills simulation when the initial height was at 5.00m and the hill height was at 3.00m there was the most TE making it a faster ride. As the data shows PE at the top of the initial drop was at 2446J  and the PE and the top of the hill was 1474J creating a lot of KE to follow. This is called energy transformation. This is when one type of energy, in this case PE, is converted into KE as the cart starts to go downward. Also it shows the Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy can not be created or destroyed. That means that the energy never goes away, there is always energy. My data shows that in the initial drop simulator the PE at the bottom was 1 and as you can see it never went down to zero due to that law. 

          Lastly, you want to have a heavier cart mass. Because when you have a heavier cart mass the amount of TE will go up. As it shows in my data from mass & energy when the mass of the cart was at 60kg rather than 40kg. So when it was at 60kg the total energy was 2932J and when at 40kg the total energy was at 1954J.  This shows to have an exciting ride you want a heavier cart mass to have faster and more entertainment for the riders. 

            In conclusion I would recommend higher initial drop than the hill and a heavier cart mass to have the most TE you can have.  This will create the most enjoyable ride for the riders. I hope you learned what it takes to have a fun usable ride and will choose my design. 


         
         
          