You should use my roller coaster recommendation because it has the appropriate initial drop height in order for the coaster car to make it to the end of the ride. Because I will have the initial drop height at 400m  and the first loop at 300m, that car will be able to make it past that loop. After that loop there is another loop that is 250m tall, so again it should make it past there. Then there is a down hill and a corkscrew with very small bumps at the end. The reason we make the initial drop height higher than the loop is because if the loop is taller you will not have enough energy. The higher you go the more PE you have, and the more PE you have the more TE you have. In other words PE+KE=TE. For example, when I tested the drop height at 2m the PE was 1173(J), but when I tested the height at 5m the PE was 2932(J). When the car goes up the loop it will need enough energy to make it over. For example, a hill height of 5000m needs 7000(J) to make it over, but the initial drop height of 4500m only gives 4750(J) it will not be able to get over. Because energy cannot be created or destroyed only transferred from one form of energy to another the amount of energy will stay the same and stay lower than the amount needed to get around the loop. When I did the test I saw that when the initial drop height was 5m and the hill was 5m the car did not make it over, but when the hill height was 4m the car did make it over. I would also recommend a car with a big mass. The more mass the car has the more PE it will have at the top of the drop. And because the PE is the greatest, the TE will also be the greatest. When I had a car that had a mass of 40kg it only had 1958(J) at the top of the initial drop. But when I had a car that was 60kg it had a PE of 2973(J). So if you want the ride to be safe you need to have the hill height shorter than the initial drop height. Also you need to have enough energy to get to the end of the track so you want to have a high initial drop and a big car mass to give it the most TE possible. Also if you want the ride to be fun, you will want a high drop height and a lot of energy.