            On the roller coaster that the Gonzales family decides to make, there needs to be multiple things that are there to make the roller coaster run smoothly. And be able to make it back to the start safely. Adding a whole bunch of hill and loops will make the roller coaster super fun and exciting. But, adding the features that will make the roller coaster safe is necessary while building a roller coaster. So on the roller coaster the Gonzales family builds, add a hill that is very very close to the initial drop height but just a little bit shorter. Then, it has enough energy to make it over the hill. Having a cart with more mass will also help the roller coaster have more total energy. And more total energy will make the roller coaster better. 

            The first variable that needs to be included in the roller coasters track/design is the initial drop. If there is a hill on the roller coaster track, the hill needs to be shorter then the initial drop of the roller coaster. I learned in my data that when the initial drop was 4 m, and the hill height was 3.25, the roller coaster made it over the hill. When the initial drop was 4 m, and the hill height was 5, the roller coaster did not make it over the hill and it didn't make it to the end of the track. So when building the roller coaster, add a hill that is shorter then the initial drop but still pretty big. 

            When the initial drop height was higher, the more total energy it had. In my data I found that when the release height was 2 m, the potential energy at the top of the hill was 821 J and the KE at the bottom of the hill was 820 J. When the release height was 4.75 m, the potential energy was 1950 J at the top of the hill and the KE was 1949 J at the bottom of the hil. So that shows that the relationship between release height and PE is when the release height is higher, the total energy is higher. 

           The relationship between KE, PE, and total energy, effect the ride because when the ride has more energy the higher the initial drop is. The amount of KE and PE will ALWAYS = the amount of total energy no matter where you are in the roller coaster. The Law of Conservation of Energy says that energy can not be created or destroyed so the amount of total energy at the top will be the same of energy at the bottom. So if the roller coaster wants to have a ton of energy, having a really tall initial drop would be the best way to do that. 

           The amount of PE at the top of the hill was always more then the KE at the top of the hill in the trials that I did. But as the roller coaster went down, the energy switched to KE. At the initial drop in my trial when the drop was 4 m, the potential energy was 1642 J, at the bottom of the hill it all converted over to KE minus 1 J. 

            The mass of the cart effects the KE and PE. When the car weighs more, the more KE and PE the roller coaster is going to have. In my trial, when the car weighed 44 kg, the total energy was 1723 J. And, when the mass was 56 kg, the total energy was 2193 J. So that shows that the more mass the cart is the more energy the roller coaster is gonna have. So, the more energy the better, so making a cart with more mass would make the roller coaster better. 

            When making the roller coaster, make a cart with more mass and a higher initial drop. Using my data this proves that the higher the initial drop the more energy it has which the more energy the better the roller coaster. Having a cart that weighs more also provides more total energy. Adding a hill is a good idea but if the hill is taller then the initial drop height then the roller coaster would not make it over the hill and to the end. 

            