In this writing we will be looking at some differnt coaster designs, and which is the best. When it comes to a good roller coaster you need to have good amounts of energy changes to keep it intressting, like at the start when you have your inital drop that goes into the rest of your ride you need a lot of PE to get you through the rest of the ride.
       Whe you start the ride you want to have it begin with a good inital drop, when we did our experements in the simullation we found that for the inital drop a good hight is 5 (m) compaired to the lower 2 (m) because it gives us higher amounts of potental energy (PE) at the start which lets us do more things becasue that potental energy can be changed into kenetic energy (KE) which we can see at the end of the inital drop we got 2,606 kenetic energy for the 5 (m) drop and only 1,044 kenetic energy for the 2 (m) drop. it is important to have high amounts of energy for a roller coaster because you need to have it for the ride to go. Both potental and kenetic energy are very important for the coaster to go beacuse you need potental energy for kenetic energy when they change from one to another.
     When you have a cart at the top of the hill it will have the greatest amount of potental energy (PE) that it will at any point in the whole ride, that is because you can never have more than you started with due to the Law of Conservation of energy which states the energy can never be created nor destoryed it only can change from one state to another (PE & KE), So when you are at the top of the hill you will have the most PE and at the bottom of the hill you will have the most KE, the energy will only change from one form to anyother.
       When you add things like hill into your coaster you will have to make sure that you have the nessesary amounts of energy for it to make it over the hill and also to the end of it, when we had an inital drop of 5 and a hill that was 2.5 (m) high it was able to make it over the hill and at the peak it still had 1,302 PE and 1,288 KE aswell. When we had the same inital drop and a differnt hill hight of 5 that is now the same as the drop it was not able to make it over the hill because it would require more energy to get over the hill then it started with.
       When it comes to energy the mass of something plays a big role, this is because when you have something with a bigger mass it will also hold more energy in it. We can see this in action in our mass & energy data where we had a cart with a mass of 60 (kg) and one with a mass of 40 (kg), the cart that had a mass of 60 (kg) had 1760 (J) PE at the top of the drop compaired to the 1175 (J) of PE the cart with 40 (kg) mass.
       That is just some of the things you need to take into cinsideration when creating a roller coaster and some of the scince and engnering that is required to make a coaster go.