Dear Gonzales family, 
During the roller coaster and energy analysis, we have learned all about potential energy, kinetic energy, total energy, car energy/mass, initial drops, hills, etc. We have also done multiple different simulations to advance our learning in these categories. 
First, we did some learning with initial drops as well as a simulation. In the simulation, I found that the higher the release height the more potential energy the coaster car has at the top of the initial drop, and the lower the initial drop release height the lower the potential energy. The higher the potential energy at the top of the initial drop the more kinetic energy the coaster car had at the bottom. I also noticed throughout the simulation that the potential energy also is the same number as the total energy. For example  the release height of 2.00 had less potential energy (977 J) and the release height of 5.00 meters had 2443 J of potential energy at the top of the initial drop. As the coaster car goes down the drop all the energy moves or switches into kintetic energy. 
The second simulation we did deal with adding a hill to the initial drop. I found that the initial drop had to be taller than the the hill following that initial drop, if the hill was higher or the same as the drop the coaster car would not make it over. For example, I did the hill height as 5.00 meters with the initial drop height always being 5.00 meters as well. The coaster car didnt have enough energy to make it over the hill and to the end, but.. the height of 3.70 meters had enough potential energy and kinetic energy to make it over the hill and then end of the track. 
The next simulation we did we learned about the mass and energy of the coaster car. During the simulation, I tested a small mass, 2 medium masses, and 1 heavy mass. I found that the heavy-mass car (60kg) had the most potential energy but was the slowest when tested, compared to the car with the least mass, in this case 40kg. This coaster car had the least potential energy with 1958 J of energy. The more mass the less the speed will be
During these simulations, with the law of conservation of energy.. I have learned that Energy cannot be created or destroyed, but it can change. 