
Dear Gonzales family, over the last week, I have thoroughly studied why the roller coaster I have created is a perfect fit for a fun, exciting, and most importantly, a SAFE ride! The initial drop gives the ride more energy because of the height, and the hill is high, but not too high in order for it to get safely to the end, and finally, the mass of the car is a perfect amount for the rider's enjoyment. I have some very important reasoning to this information, so buckle in, and read closely to see this amazing ride!!

First off, the beginning of the ride is the initial drop, which gives more energy to the ride. When the initial drop is higher, the more energy that is produced. At the top there is more PE than KE energy, and at the bottom there is more KE than PE, and the amount of J in that energy all depends on the height of the initial drop. During the first experiment about the initial drop, when the release height was 2.5 meters, the ride only was at 1222 J of PE, and when it reached the bottom of the ride, the KE was only 1221 J, which is a total energy of 1222 J. But when the cart was at a release height of 5 meters, the PE at the top was 2443 J! At the bottom the KE was 2443 J, both a total of energy of, 2443 J. which is way more than the release height, or initial drop of 2.5 meters. This proves that the roller coaster I have made is fun, exciting, and safe because we are dropping it at a height of 5 meters, which allows more energy for inversions.

Secondly, as we add the hill, we need the highest hill possible, which is a height of 4.26 meters. Both KE and PE start to change, so as the cart is moving down the hill, the KE increases and the PE is decreasing this shows when I put the height of the hill at 2, the PE at the top of the hill was 982 J, and the KE at the top was 1461 J, which is a total energy of 2443 J. The initial drop PE energy was at 2443 J. When I put the hill height to the highest, at 5 meters, the PE was 1528 J, and the KE was 15, which is a total energy of 2449 J, and the initial drop was also at 2449 J. But the cart did not make it above the hill, because it was too high! This was because of the Law of Conservation, which states that energy can not be created or destroyed, it can only be transferred (PE through KE). So because there was not enough energy to get the cart over the hill, no more energy could be made, so it fell backward. With the last height we tried at 4.26 meters, the PE at the top of the hill was 2088 J and the KE was 15 J, at a total of 2445 energy J. The initial drop PE energy was at 2445 J.This proves that my roller coaster is the best because the hill is not too low, and not too high, and yet still makes it to the end, fun, exciting, and safe.

Lastly, the car mass is the best at 60 KG. When the car mass was but at 40 KG the PE at the initial drop was 1956 J, and at the bottom, the KE was 1955 J, this coming to a total of energy, 1956 J. But when the car mass was but at 60 KG, the PE at the initial drop was, 2934, and the KE at the bottom was 2924, coming to a total of 2934 J. This proves that my roller coaster is the best because, the more energy, the more fun that the riders will have, and since my cart has the most energy, the riders will have the most fun, exciting, and fun ride.

To conclude my proof to you, I would like to say that this roller coaster can and will be the best fit roller coaster that you could have, it is fun, exciting, and safe, all because of the initial drop, the hill, and the mass of the car! -Sincerely, you're best roller coaster maker ______.


