Many things have to occur to make a ride fun. Release height, mass, energy, Law of Conservation of energy, and G-Force are vital factors in creating a fun, thrilling ride. The Gonzales family must consider these things.

During the initial drop on a Roller coaster, the Potential Energy is going to the highest it will ever be during the ride. When the Potential Energy is high, the Kinetic Energy stays at a solid 0 (J). As the roller coaster rolls down the hill or drops, the Potential Energy the car once had transferred to Kinetic Energy. For example, in my trials, the release height of ride #1 was 5.00 (m). With this, the stored energy at the top of the drop was 2443(J). As the ride progressed down the hill, the Potential Energy turned into Kinetic energy. At the bottom of the hill, there was no built-up energy in the car. At the bottom of the hill, the Kinetic energy now was 2243 (J) and the Potential energy of the ride lay at 0 (J). The Potential and Kinetic Energy of a roller coaster rely on the release height or also known as the initial drop of the ride. For example, in trial #4, I experimented with a low release height of 2.5 (m). This completely altered the Potential Energy turned Kinetic Energy the ride had. The Potential Energy lay at an all-time low of 1222 (J). As predicted, this energy quickly turned into Kinetic Energy as the ride progressed. In simple words, the higher the initial height a car has, the larger amount of Potential and Kinetic Energy the ride will have. This makes it more thrilling.  The amount of energy a roller coaster has is also measured using Total Energy. The Total Energy on a Roller Coaster is the energy that remains constant throughout the course of the ride. As mentioned above, Potential energy switches to Kinetic Energy throughout the ride. The quantity of a Potential turned Kinetic Energy in a ride equals the total energy a ride has. 


The Law of Conservation of Energy states that Energy can neither be created nor destroyed but it can be transformed from one form of Energy to another. Potential Energy changes to Kinetic energy during a ride. This demonstrates the Law of Conservation Energy and proves it to be correct. The higher the hill height in a ride, the greater the initial drop of the roller coaster. For instance, when analyzing hills, my group and I noticed a pattern. On our #2 trial of analyzing hills, we experimented with a hill height of 3.37 (m) and this hill height increased the total PE of the initial drop making it our highest recorded. This number was 1642 (J). The hill height of a ride can also affect the initial drop height negatively. For instance, on trial #4, my group tested a hill with a height of 2 (m). These two meters created an initial drop height of 1640 making have less energy and the least exciting. By experimenting further, we are able to determine the amount of PE and KE a roller coaster has by looking at the mass. The larger the mass a car has in a coaster, the larger the PE at the top of the initial drop and the larger the KE at the bottom of the drop. After conducting many experiments, we found a car with a mass of 60 (kg) had 2937 (J) of PE and 2930 (J) of KE. But, a car with a mass of 40 (kg) only had 1258  (J) of PE and 1953 (J) of KE at the bottom of the drop. These pieces of evidence show that the amount of mass a ride has dictates the amount of PE and KE a ride has. 

