There are many things that need to go into the design of the roller coaster to make it safe, working, and fun. In this essay, I will be showing you what you need to include in your design and other facts to know about when it comes to energy and roller coasters. 

First off, when considering the height of the initial drop of the coaster, the initial drop height impacts the total energy of the roller coaster. The higher the drop height, the greater the potential energy will be which will then raise the kinetic energy and also the total amount of energy of the coaster. In trial 2 when the release height was 4 meters, the potential energy at the top of the drop was 2145, but in trial 1 when the release height was 5 meters, the potential energy at the top of the drop was 2443. This shows that when the height of the roller coaster is increased, the potential energy goes up. 

Secondly, at the start of the track, the PE is bigger and then when the coaster is going, the KE gets larger. And then at the end of the ride, the KE is bigger and the PE is 0 or 1 so then the total energy is bigger. In trial 5, when the release height was 4.5, the PE at the top was 2410. But as the car moved down the initial drop, the PE changed to 1 and the KE changed to 2409. This happened because at the top of the roller coaster, there is a ton of stored-up energy (PE) in the car because it's not moving. But then when the car starts to move, the stored energy is then put into motion, bringing up the KE and lowering the PE.

I also know that anytime throughout the ride on the coaster, the PE and KE will always equal the total amount of energy, even if the PE and KE change. For example In trial 3 when the release height was 3.75, at the top the PE was 2023 and the KE was 0 and then at the end of the ride, the PE was 1 and the KE was 2022, showing that when adding the PE and KE, they will always equal the total energy. The Law of Conservation of Energy states that energy can not be created nor destroyed, and the roller coaster ride proves this law. Because you can add up the PE and KE to get the total amount of energy, this shows that energy is never created nor destroyed during the ride. 

Another very important thing to take into consideration is that the initial drop height needs to be greater than the hill height or else the car won't be able to get over the hill successfully. And it will not make it to the end of the ride. I know this because in trial 4 when the hill height was 4.5 meters and the initial drop was 4 meters, the car did not make it over the hill. This is because the Law of Conservation of Energy says that energy can not be created, and the only way the car could make it over the hill would be for it to create more energy to move it over the hill. But, it can't because of the Law of Conservation. 

The last but not least thing that I learned is that the more mass the car has, the greater amount of PE, KE, and total energy the roller coaster will have. I know this because in trial 4 when the car had the greater mass of 60 kg, the amount of PE it had at the initial drop was 2350. And the KE it had at the bottom of the drop was 2347 and the total amount of energy was 2350. But then in trial 1 when the mass was the least it could be 40 kg, the PE was 1567 at the top of the initial drop and the total energy was. This shows that the greater the mass of the car, the more PE, KE and total energy it will have. And the car will also go faster when it is has a greater mass and slower when it has a smaller mass.

All of these ideas above are more than recommendations, they are requirements to make it the best, most safe, and fully functioning roller coaster you'll ever see. I promise that if you follow my ideas, you're sure to bring in a ton of business and have your visitors having fun for the whole day.