When you are thinking of a rollercoaster to build or ride you need to build the Top Thrill Dragster. The Top Thrill Dragster is a 420ft/130m tall roller coaster that can sustain joy for the entirety of the ride. The coaster with a KE and PE of 842,751 and has enough speed to move someone from 1 side of the park to the other. The ride KE Grows the longer the ride goes and will continue to gain PE as the carts rise.

The KE and PE are similar things in this ride as they tell how fast the ride will go and how high it can go. The energy that is used is converted into speed and spins. The total energy used is converted back and forth throughout the entire ride. The energy will go through the people's hair and faces giving them a good time.

As the ride starts, it begins to build. The build generates PE giving the potential speed a greater value. The car will descend very quickly in a short time. The time reduction will give the riders a feeling of wanting more, getting more use, and money.

As the hills go down, there won't need to be a fancy highly priced piston accelerator to make the riders go faster(which is unsafe) because it already reaches a top speed of 120mph/190km/h. The Law of conservation of energy states that energy can not be created nor destroyed, and that is what happens on the ride. The energy is built up and converted to PE, then at the top converted to KE. All of the energy will not be lost throughout the ride.

The Initial drop height is on the ground and would need a conveyor belt at the bottom o get it going. After the main launch, there will be no need for a belt or piston to get it moving. The speed will build up with the machine and launch up a hill at 120mph/190km/h and is carried by the machine and PE.

The mass of the cart is about 1 ton and is weighed as such to increase the PE and KE during the ride. The PE can depend on the mass of the cart because, if the weight of the cart is lighter, it has a harder time going down a hill at faster speeds. The heavier the object, the stronger the gravity-pulling force. The heavier the item the more the energy is pushing down, which increases PE, KE, and total energy.