For you, the Gonzalez family, we have created an exciting quick but safe roller coaster design! Some of your ideas (such as hills higher than drops) cannot be implemented due to energy issues I will further explain in future paragraphs. I can assure you after I explain the science behind how these coasters work, and how we will build your coaster, you will love this design. 

The first important implementation of the coaster will be the drop, which we will make at a height of 5 meters. With this starting height, you will get the maximum amount of potential energy that height can affect. This allows the coaster to have a lot of potential energy that will convert into the kinetic energy necessary to get over any hills. How this system works is the potential energy in the start equals the total energy, and as the coaster goes on that potential energy turns into kinetic energy (all while still equaling the same amount of total energy). Basically, the system never loses or creates energy, it simply converts it.
 
Now, a roller coaster cant just have a drop, which is why we have decided it should have numerous hills to go over! These hills will all be lower than the initial drop height, but just barely. For the car to get to the end of a ride, it must be able to get over the hills, which is impossible if the hills are the same height or taller than the initial drop. This is because to get over a hill of equal or taller height, the cart would need more potential energy than the drop gave it. This is physically impossible due to energy not being able to be created or destroyed, and therefore the hills have to be shorter. To add to the excitement we will make the hills go in order getting slightly smaller each time to make sure the cart can get to the end. With smaller drops in the start of the hill, there will be less and less KE converting each time as it moves down the hill. This will keep it fast, but slow enough to safely stop.  The first hill will be 4.75 meters, the second will be 4.5 meters, the third will be 4.25 meters, the fourth will be 4 meters,  and the fifth will be 3 meters.

The third thing we considered when designing your coaster was the weight of the car. After a lot of consideration, we have decided that a car of 60 kilograms would best suit your coaster. We have decided on this weight due to the amount of potential energy a car with a greater mass has, compared to a smaller one. Cars with greater mass have been proven through experiments to carry significantly more potential energy, showing that mass effects the total energy in an object. As the car moves down this significant amount of energy will convert into as much kinetic energy possible that you could safely have. If you combine this with how tall the drop will be, the coaster will be extremely fast, making it all the more exciting.  
 
Our decision was carefully made so a drop height of 5 meters, 5 hills that get smaller, and a car with a mass of 60 kilograms, is the best design choice. All of these design choices combined will, and I assure you with my full confidence, make one of the most exciting and safe coasters in your park.