Dear Gonzales family, you have requested a roller coaster, and I have the best one for you. See, for a roller coaster to be exiting and reach the end, it will first need an initial drop hight, the best hight found, was 4.00 meters. It will also need a hill to make it exiting, but the hill will need to be a lower hight than the initial drop hight to ensure that the cart makes it to the end of the ride. I found in the simulation that 3.75 meters is the best option. 
The higher the initial drop hight, the more PE it will have at the top, then the energy will transfer into KE at the bottom because energy cant be created or destroyed, only transfered. But in the end, there will still be the same amount of total energy. At 4.00 meters, my roller coaster will have 1958 J total energy. But no mater where the cart is on the ride, the PE plus KE will always equal the total energy.
The hill will be 3.75 meters, this ensures that the car will make it to  the end because it is a lower hight than 
the initial drop. The energy gets distributed throuout the ride and at the top of the hill, the car will have 1844 J PE and KE but then at the end there was only KE left and no PE. This would not have worked if the hill was 4.52 meters because there would be 1960 J PE at the top of the hill, then it will go back to the beginning of the ride, because it is too tall of a hill. It would also not get to the end if the hill was the same hight as the initial drop.
If the car is much heavier, it will have a lot of energy, but it wont have as much if it is light. The best mass for the cart, is 50 kg this made it so the total energy was 1951 J. If the cart had less mass, it would not have as much energy, for example, a cart with a mass of 43 kg had 1701 J total energy. This does not effect how the energy gets transfered from PE to KE at all. 
I hope you feel that my evidence on how hight of initial drop, hight of the hill, and mass effects the energy, and weather or not the car will make it to the end, has convinced you to chose my roller coaster design.