Today, I will be telling you about the best design you can do for your new roller coaster, it will have the most speed, the most exciting, and most importantly, it will be safe. The following writing is the best roller coaster to make.
 For your initial drop, you are going to want to make the highest coaster you can, you want to do this because it will have the most total energy and will have the most speed off of the initial drop. When we were testing and experimenting with the best roller coaster, we noticed that when the initial drop was lower, the amount of Joules was severely slower than that of a higher drop. In trial 1, the drop was 5 meters. The total energy was 2932. It started as potential energy and once the car got moving it quickly became kinetic energy that moved the fastest out of all trials. In trial 2 of testing the initial drops, we set the height to 2 meters. This severely impacted the amount of energy the coaster had, at a measly1173 joules of energy, a whole 1000 less than the 5-meter height, a higher height will have more kinetic energy at the bottom and more at the top. Potential energy is the energy pent up inside mass, ready to be put in motion, that is kinetic energy. Energy never gets destroyed or created, this is called the law of conservation of energy. It shifts from one to the other, kinetic energy is the speed and motion part of energy determining how fast the coaster goes. You should choose the highest drop height to maximize the enjoyment of the ride and increase speed.
For your hill height, it must be less than the initial drop height if you want to get the car over the hill. The hill requires a certain amount of energy and for the coaster, we are making we will not have enough energy to make it up a higher hill without support from other forces. In trial 3 of adding hills, the hill height was 4 meters and the initial drop height was 5 meters. The car was safely able to make it over the track in the first run with more than enough energy, at a total of 2937 joules. However, when running trial 4, the hill height was 5 meters and the initial drop was also 5 meters. This trial did not have enough energy to make it up and was stuck going right up to the top and falling back down never stopping. When going up a hill you can feel the coaster slowing down. This is kinetic energy being converted into potential energy, when the car makes it over the hill, the potential energy is converted back into kinetic energy and starts to gain speed going down the hill. This car had the exact same amount of energy and was not able to make it through the ride, this is why you need to make a hill smaller than the initial drop height.
Lastly, you must consider the weight of the coaster, this is essential to the amount of total energy you want in your coaster. When we were running our trial on the mass of the coaster car, we had our hill height at 4 meters and our drop height at 5 meters. We had the coaster weight at 40 kg for trial 1. The total energy was
 1958 joules of energy, this would impact the speed because gravity is always pulling down, gravity will act faster if the car is heavier, this trial was the slowest out of all of them. When we ran our 4th trial, we had set the car to 60 kilograms. We had our hill and initial drop height the same as in trial 1. This change in weight made the car go much faster and had the most total energy at 2934 joules. This happened because gravity as I previously mentioned, is always pulling down, when it gets the car to go down it will at faster speeds than lighter cars.
This is why you should have the highest drop height, a hill just a little less than the drop height, and the biggest car you have.