     I have tested different ways your roller coaster could be without stopping midway through the ride. I have done a lot of work and I can conclude your roller coaster needs at least these three things, to make it fun but also functional. The initial drop has to be higher than the hill you place after it, the car for the coaster should be heavy, and the energy at the top of the initial drop should be high.

     One of the things I mentioned in my introduction was the initial drop has to be higher than the hill you place after. when I was testing my coaster, if the hill after the initial drop was taller than the initial drop, the car would not be able to make it up the hill, it did not have enough kinetic energy. the potential energy at the top of the initial drop switches back to kinetic energy when it moves down the hill, and it is not enough to make it up a hill that is taller than the initial drop.

    Another important detail that I mentioned was that the car for the roller coaster we are creating should be heavy. I learned when I was testing different roller coasters that the heavier the car was the more potential energy it had at the top of the hill. the more potential energy the coaster has, the more kinetic energy it can convert to, and the faster the rollercoaster will go.

    The last thing I mentioned to make this roller coaster fun and safe is that the initial drop should be as high as possible. when the drop is high, the potential energy is high, which means when it goes down the hill, it will convert into kinetic energy and make it go faster. The total energy cannot be created nor destroyed, according to the law of conservation. So none of the energy will be lost but we should still make it higher up so the coaster can go fast enough to make it to the end.

    While testing different roller coasters, I found my three overall themes to make it safe and fun. The initial drop has to be higher than the hill you place after it, the car for the roller coaster should be heavy, and the initial drop should be as high as possible. with these three things, I believe your roller coaster will be successful and fun.