Dear Gonzalez Family,
       During the Roller coaster and energy analysis, we learned about PE and KE at the top of and throughout roller coasters. We also learned about initial drop and the relation between KE and PE.
    
 I believe we should make a roller coaster with a release height of 5m. This is the initial drop. We want a higher initial drop because that will create a higher PE. I know this because when I tried it with a drop height of 5m the PE was 2444J. The KE will always be 0 at the top of the initial drop. This is because it is stored energy. 
  
  The higher the PE and KE higher the total energy will be. With higher energy, it will be more of an interesting ride for riders. With more PE it will give the cart more energy to get over hills or loops. This is also because of the Law of Conservation because enrgy can only be converted not created or destroyed. Gonzalez family should make a hill height of around 4.51m. I believe they should do this because they will have enough KE from the initial drop to get around the hill. The initial drop should never be lower than the hill height.
  
  The car changes because when the car goes down the initial drop PE and KE stays the same. I know it stays the same because in my data it says,  977J for PE and 0J for KE. The total energy was also 977J.I think this happend because there would be no where for energy to be created or destroyed. The Law of Conservation says that energy can't be created or destroyed only converted and energy had not been converted yet because this was at the bottom of the initial drop.

   The mass in the car will effect the KE and PE in the roller coaster. With a higher mass the more energy it will take for the cart to get over hills and loops. We want a lower mass because I believe it will make the ride more fun. I know this because I had a cart with a mass of 40 and the PE at the top of initial drop was 1959 and KE of 1869. I also tried it with a higher mass with 60g and it was 2938 for PE and KE was 2908. More total energy with a higher mass too. It was 2938J and 40 was 1959 for the total energy.
 
  In the end,  PE and KE can't be created or destroyed only converted into new forms. And at the top of the hill PE is always higher than KE and PE and KE always equal the total energy.       
    