          For a roller coaster I recommend something that has a high initial drop and a lower hill height so the car will make it over the hill. For example if you use an initial drop height of 3 meters and you have a hill height of 2.5 meters it will get the car over the hill and the car will still have enough kinetic energy to continue on the ride.

      Potential energy is the energy that is stored in an object before it starts moving. Kinetic energy is energy that helps the object move while it's in motion. Both of these energies help start the ride and keep the ride going. As potential energy builds up it starts to change to kinetic energy when the car starts moving the energy level doesn't change it transfers over to the other type of energy. At the top of the initial drop the potential energy starts to build up the more mass is on it then when that energy becomes kinetic energy. The more mass on a car the faster it will go because of the build up of energy in the car.

       With the amount of mass giving the car more energy and also making it go faster. With more mass it will make the design that I have in mind. With the height of my current design being 3.5 with hill heights of 2.25 meters and 2.5 meters. The height of the drop will get the car over both hills with no problem and will have enough energy to finish the ride. The potential energy would be somewhere around 1950 to 2000 from the data that my group has gotten.
       
        While the car is in motion the energy will start to change.From stored the energy which is potential to kinetic energy which is the energy that gets used while in motion the amount of energy never changes it's just how the energy is being used that changes. Energy can never be created nor destroyed, it just gets transferred. The total amount of energy is the same as the potential and kinetic energy levels.

        With all of the information I have given you on the different energies and how they work. The roller coaster design that I have going fits all the criteria and will attract a lot of new visitors from all over. The amount of fun people will have on my roller coaster design will have them talking about to everyone they know.