Dear The Gonzales family,

This past week we have been learning about Potential energy and Kinetic energy, Mass, And energy. Total energy, Conservation of energy, Dependent, Independent, and Controlled Variables, Speed, Friction, Hills, Roller Coaster, And the Initial height of the hill. Today  i´m going to be discussing what iv´e learned. I believe to make a fun and exiting roller coaster you have to add big hills and turns. Here are my suggestions in order to make this ride fun and exiting. 

First, The initial drop When I tried different release heights I tried 2 and there was 977 at the top of my hill and no KE but once it got to the bottom there was  977 so when the cart when down the hill it built a lot of that Kinetic energy. Then i tried 3 as my release height It started with 1,466 PE and none KE then at the drop there 1,466 and it stays the same all the way down until i got to 5. When i had the number 5 the tallest it goes there was a change with the PE and KE when i got from the top to the bottom. 

Second, Adding a hill. When i did the adding a hill  my hill height was 2,8 and the amount of PE I had was 2,444 and 0 KE then when i went up another hill i had 1,263 PE and 1,191 KE which is a big change from when i was doing the initial height. I did different hill heights like 3.21 and 4.15 and i got similar  results every time but when i got to 5 the PE and KE were so far away from each other in numbers and i was very shocked because all the other trials were all the same or they were really close. I suggest making the hill height 5 so there is more Kinetic Energy and Potential Energy. 

Third, Mass and energy this one was very confusing and interesting but from what i learned is the higher the mass the higher PE and KE so everything basically depends on mass Its very Dependent the the faster the speed then the friction its like a chain reaction. I suggest making the initial height 5 and the hill 4.15 it build that suspense and then they would go super fast! 
 The roller coaster had one pattern the whole time, There was zero kinetic energy the whole time the initial drop but at the bottom that is when it had the most. The energy that was stored in the car picked up as it went down the hill. The higher the mass the higher energy in the car and the fastest it will go and there will be more momentum. The drop heights affected the energy big time when the initial drop height was 2 the energy was very low because the car could not  build that momentum PE and when it got to the bottom the KE was very low as well and it went very slow. When your doubling of the height  will result in a doubling of the gravitational potential energy. A tripling of the gravitational potential energy. The higher the mass the more potential energy.
This is how i know you could make a safe, exiting, fun roller coaster.