I would tell the Gonzalez family that hills are a great addition to roller coasters, however they can't have a hill higher than the initial drop. 

This has a lot to do with the Law of Conservation of Energy which states that energy cannot be destroyed or created only transferred to a different type of energy. All energy in items and organisms added together are called total energy and in this experiment the two energies being added together are potential energy and kinetic energy. 
At the top of the initial drop, all the energy is potential (gravitational potential energy to be specific) because the coaster car has the potential to go down the hill. As the coaster car goes down, all the potential energy turns into kinetic energy because the car is in motion.
 When the car starts traveling up the hill, the kinetic energy goes back to gravitational potential energy because of the gravity pulling the car back down. The coaster car doesn't have enough kinetic energy to go up a hill the same size as the initial drop, much less one that is bigger. 

Proof of this is in the "Add a Hill" experiment. In the last experiment I ran, the hill was the same height as the initial drop (5 m) but it was the only one whose coaster car didn't make it over the hill. In comparison to a different trial in the same experiment, I had a hill height of 4.75 m, just 0.25 m from the initial drop height, and the coaster car got over the hill. It's also worth mentioning that the two coaster cars in both experiments had the same amount of total energy at 2449 js so the energy didn't have anything to do with the coaster car at the 5 m hill not going over. 

I would also say that Coaster cars with higher masses tend to have a higher amount of total energy. In the "Mass & Energy" experiment, I ran experiments with the lightest and heaviest car. The heaviest car had a total of 2938 js while the lightest car had a total of 1959 js, so the heavier the car, the more total energy it will have.  (The mass doesn't affect the ability or inability to get over hills so it won't harm the coaster experience.)

