1. As we take a look at our data from recent studies, my best bet for the initial drop is for the hill to be 3.75 With 3.75 as the drop, it doesn't exceed the limit speed of 8.4 miles per second and has a safe speed for everyone.2. Then with a hill height of 3, the roller coaster will be able to make it over the hill with no complications and still get through a loop height of 2.5 and make it to the end of the coaster.3. Moving onto mass my team and I think the best mass would be 60kg for the carts because they would be able to withhold more mass and since mass doesn't change the speed it's not going to make the roller coaster faster.4. Now that we've gone over my team's final decisions for the best height and mass we can talk about their relations of them to PE and KE (Potential Energy and Kinetic Energy).5. We chose our height as 3.75 for the initial drop because if we had more height the more PE we would've had.6. With more PE at the top, it would've converted into more KE.7. More KE means more motion which speeds up the roller coaster thus making it unsafe for passengers.8. By the end of the ride, the energy will in fact slow down because some of the energy will not get transferred from PE to Ke but instead heat, and sound energy, which makes the total energy a bit less than at the start.9. Remember just because the roller coaster "loses" energy doesn't mean it's gone, it's just getting transferred into a few different types of energy just as PE got transferred to KE.10. Energy cannot be destroyed nor created.11. Also if we compared PE to and KE at the bottom, the KE will be zero and the PE should be less than the original considering the cart is now on a higher level as it was on the drop or hill.12. Adding on to this the PE affects the Ke by transferring the energy to KE, aking potential energy and using it as motion energy and a bit of sound and heat energy.13. So if we go over my suggestions for the roller coaster, the best height for the drop and hill would be 3.75 and 3 for the hill.14. This is better so it doesn't exceed the speed limit.15. Then we chose 3 for the loop and 60kg for the mass.16. My team and I hope this helps the Gonzales family with their roller coaster and make sure all passengers are at their safest when riding.