1. The first recommendation that I would make, to the Gonzales family, is that they should create a roller coaster with an initial drop height of 5 m. tall.2. I would make this recommendation for the roller coaster, because in the simulation when the initial drop height was set at 5 m, the PE at the top of the drop was 2834 J, and the KE at the bottom of the hill is 2833 J.3. Those are both higher amounts of energy, which will make the ride go faster, and ensure that the car makes it to the end.4. Whereas when the initial drop height was set at 2 m. tall, the PE at the top of the drop, was only 1134 J, and the KE at the bottom of the drop was only 1133 J.5. I think this energy data proves that if you want your cart to make it to the end of the roller coaster, you're going to need more energy, and a good way to make sure you have that energy is by creating the initial drop at a height of 5 m. tall.6. Adding on to what I already said about the amounts of KE and PE, you might've noticed that they always equal each other.7. This is because the track is frictionless, so no energy is being transferred or changing forms into anything other than PE and KE.8. So for the initial drop, since there were 2834 J of PE at the top of it when it was 5 m. tall, and 0 J of KE at that height, the total energy would end up being the two of those added together, which equals 2834 J.9. As the cart heads down the drop, all that PE at the top of the drop will decrease, and the amount of KE will increase.10. This means that PE and KE, have an inverse relationship, since when one of those values increases, the other decreases, and vice versa.11. But, since the law of Conservation of Energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed, the PE, does not just disappear, and the KE is not just created.12. The PE from the top of the drop transfers itself into KE, as it makes its way down the drop.13. Meaning no energy is created or destroyed, it has just changed forms.14. The amount of PE at the top of the track should be equal to the amount of KE at the bottom of the track, because of this.15. PE and KE always equal the total energy, and since there is 0 J of KE at the top of the track, and since there is no height at the bottom of the track, there should be 0 J of PE at the bottom of the track.16. However, in a real-life scenario, the track would have friction.17. This means that some of that PE, that transferred into KE in the frictionless track scenario, would transfer into thermal energy.18. It might seem like it is losing energy, but the friction of the track is really just causing it to change into a different form, then what you might see in the simulation with the frictionless track.19. The second recommendation I would make is to make the hill height 3 m.20. I would make this recommendation because, based on the data that was collected, the hill height has to be smaller than the initial drop height.21. For example, when we put the hill height at 2 m. and the initial drop height at 5 m. the cart easily made it to the end, over the hill, and at the top of the hill, the amount of KE was 1743 J.22. However, when we kept the initial drop height at 5 m. and put the hill height at 5 m. also, the cart did not make it to the end or over the hill, and the KE at the top of the hill was only 1 J.23. This shows that the hill height should be shorter than the initial drop height, and I think that 3 m. would be a really good height for the hill, since it is shorter than the initial drop height of 5 m. and it has more PE at the top, causing for a more fun ride going down the hill.24. The final recommendation that I would make is to put the mass of the car at 60 kg.25. I would recommend this because it causes there to be more energy.26. When the mass of the car was at 40 kg.27. The total energy was 1957 J, and that was also the PE at the top of the initial drop, and at the bottom of the drop, the KE was 1954 J.28. However, after changing the mass to 60 kg.29. The total energy increased a lot to 2936 J, which was also what the PE increased to at the top of the drop, and the KE at the bottom of the initial drop was 2911 J.30. So, the more mass the car has, the more PE the car will have, and as a result to that, it will also have more KE.31. Having more mass will increase both the PE and the KE, and having less mass, will decrease the PE and KE.32. The height of the initial drop should be 4 m. tall.33. I think this because when the height of the initial drop was 4 m. tall, the speed was 8.84 m/s/s at the bottom of the drop.34. This means that it is too fast for safety, but I think in the real world, where there is friction, that would slow down, so it is likely to be under 8.4 m/s/s.35. Also, if it is 4 m. it will hopefully still be tall enough, that it will be able to make it over the loop and the hill.36. The mass of the car should be 50 kg.37. In the simulation, since it is a frictionless environment, the mass does not affect the speed.38. For example, when the mass was 40 kg. the speed at the bottom of the drop and at the end of the ride was 9.88 m/s/s.39. However, when the mass was 60 kg. the speed at the bottom of the drop and at the end of the ride was 9.88 m/s/s.40. In a real-life scenario, there would be friction, though, so the more mass the cart would have the faster it would end up going.41. Since the only data I have is from the simulation, I would suggest 50 kg. because I think that, that would make the ride fun, but also help it to stay safe.