1. Hello, Gonzales Family I am here to talk about my rollercoaster design and how it is safe and fun, and how physics applies to this rollercoaster design, I will also be talking about the law of conservation of energy.2. The higher your hill is the more PE you will have at the top and the more KE you will have at the bottom when the drop height is 2m the PE at the top is 1173J but when the drop height is 5m the PE at the top is 2932J, and with KE when the drop height is 2m the KE at the bottom is 1172J and when the drop is 5m the KE at the bottom is 2930J this just shows the relationship between the height of the hill and the PE at the top and the KE at the bottom.3. Another relationship is PE and KE and TE.4. The main thing about this relationship is that when you add the PE + KE you get TE, for example at the top of the drop that was 2m the PE was 1173J and the KE was 0 so 1173 + 0 = 1173J of TE and this also works at the bottom of the hill like the PE at the bottom of the hill was 1J and the KE at the bottom was 1172J so 1 + 1172 = 1173J of TE.5. Like the law of conservation of energy says energy can't be created or destroyed, but it can be transformed into a different form of energy so when you are at the top of the drop your PE is 1173J when you are falling you have about 568J of PE and KE because the PE was transformed into KE.6. This next relationship is my favorite it is the relationship between the drop height and the hill height it isn't my favorite because it's easy to understand it's my favorite because it was logical to it if you are testing a track formation and your initial drop height is 3 and your hill height is 5 you won't be able to make it over the hill because you won't have enough energy to make it over the hill but if your drop height is 5 and your hill height is 3 then you will be able to make it over the hill because you will have enough energy.7. The final relationship I'm going to talk about is the relationship between Mass PE and KE, This one is going to be pretty simple because it says only a couple of things, the more mass you have the more energy you will have so if you are sitting at the top of the drop and your mass is 40kg and your PE at the top of the drop is 1932J you will have less energy than if your mass was 60kg because the more mass you have the more energy you will have this goes for PE and KE.8. Thanks for listening to my essay about these relationships that I have learned about in the last few days.