1. So if I start my initial drop height at 3m the PE at the top will be 1700J and KE at 0J but if I increase the height of the initial drop height to 5m the PE will increase to 2834J and KE will stay the same, 0J.2. The KE at the bottom of the initial height with the initial height was 3m the KE at the bottom would be 1700J and so if the initial drop was at 5m the KE at the bottom would then also increase to 2833.3. So the higher the initial drop is the higher the PE is at the top and the higher the KE is at the bottom of the initial drop and energy can't be destroyed so whenever the PE is greater the KE will also become greater because energy can't be destroyed, but the KE will never be greater than the PE because energy also can't be created.4. Let's say the initial drop is 5m, you would have a 2834J of PE at the top and by the time you get to the bottom you would have the same amount of energy but it would all change to KE and so the KE went from 0J to 2834J because energy can't be created or destroyed so by the end of the ride the total energy will be the same amount you started with just all KE and not PE anymore.5. When you're at the top of the initial drop all the energy is PE and the higher you are the more PE you have, and the closer you are to the ground the more KE you have and the less PE you have.6. When at the top of the initial drop all the energy will be PE and so when you're going down the hill that PE will start transferring into KE until you get all the way to the bottom, all the PE will be gone and it will all be KE, but the total amount of energy will still be the same amount that you started with.7. When there is more mass in the cart the more energy you will have more PE and KE and if you do mxgxh you will get a higher number representing PE and if your do 1/2xmxv^2 you will also get a higher KE.8. Because you will need more energy to even start to move on the roller coaster.9. You will have both more PE and KE and you would need more energy to get over the hill because if you had more mass but the same amount of energy you had before you would not make it over the hill after the initial drop.10. Mass doesn't affect the speed nor the PE or KE and I know this because when I was doing the trials I put the mass as 40kg and the speed at the end of the ride was 8.85m/s and when I changed the mass to 50kg the speed at the end of the ride was still 8.85m/s.11. this happens because the equation for speed is (PE top) mass x gravity x height = (KE bottom) ? mass x velocity^2 and since there is mass on both sides of the equation they cancel each other out causing the mass to not affect the speed and if the speed doesn't change the PE and KE doesn't either.12. Well, we were going to do 4m and 50 kg but it ended up being too fast so we changed the height to 3.75 because it wouldn't be too fast and we knew this because when the height was at 4m the speed was at 8.84m/s which just a little too much and so we knew that adding friction would take some of that speed away but just to be sure we brought the height to 3.75m and we changed the mass to 60kg because mass doesn't affect the speed.13. Height and Mass affect PE and KE if the height and mass increase so will the PE and if the PE increases so will the KE and if the height and mass decrease so will the PE and KE and the start of PE and at the bottom KE will be the same as what PE started as and the total energy you start with you will end with the same amount unless you add friction then some of the PE will go into other energy.