1. Our initial drop height should be 5 meters because the PE of this height was 2443 Jules and was higher than any other height.2. The KE at the bottom was also the highest of all the other drops at 2442 Jules.3. The higher drop should provide a more fun and attractive ride than smaller drops.4. The total energy at the end of the ride was 2443 Jules, making it a fast and exciting ride.5. We should also have our hills be 3 meters because of how the cart is able to go over the hill.6. When the cart goes down the initial drop, the PE all transfers into KE.7. The mass of the cart can also change how high the PE and KE is because of friction.8. The more mass you have, the more PE you have, but when friction occurs some of that KE transfers into heat energy.9. The law of conservation of mass is that you can not destroy or create matter, it can only be transferred.10. When the initial drop does not have enough PE and cant get over the hill that is caused by friction from the initial drop.11. When at the top of a initial drop there is always PE but never KE, but when the cart is released all the PE transfers into KE.12. Height can also effect PE and KE by having the PE value increase when height increases.13. KE is also effected by this in the way that the higher the hill height the higher the KE.14. We chose our height 3.50 because our original height of 5 meters was to high for our hill.15. we also chose a mass of 55 k/g because our PE was higher than any other weight tested.16. Our PE and KE were also effected by our height because the higher the initial drop the more PE you have because of gravity constantly pulling us down.17. KE was also effected because of the PE being the same as the KE because of not having friction.18. PE and KE can connect to total energy because the PE without friction will always be the same as TE and KE will always be the same as PE without friction.19. My design is effected by energy in the way that sense energy cant be destroyed or created, it gets transferred into heat energy in the ride.