1. The height of the initial drop should be 5 meters because the potential energy 2443 J is and the other heights are less potential energy.2. Also, according to the law of conservation of energy, energy cannot be created or destroyed so when the potential energy decrease as it goes down the hill the energy will transfer to kinetic energy and will increase the speed of the car so it has a better chance of making it to end.3. Potential, Kinetic, and Total energy all affect the ride because potential energy which is stored energy will be the starting amount of energy, and since energy cannot be created or destroyed also means that it will also be the total energy at the beginning and the end of the ride since at the moment the car is not moving so there is no kinetic energy.4. Then as the car moves potential energy transfers to kinetic energy since it is now moving but will still have the same amount of total energy because none of the energy will go away.5. Potential energy and kinetic energy change throughout the whole ride, at the initial drop there is only stored energy or PE so there will be no Kinetic energy at the start.6. Then as the car goes in motion there will be less stored energy and more energy of motion so potential energy will transfer to kinetic energy and so the PE will decrease and the KE will increase.7. I think the initial drop height should be higher than the hill height.8. I think the hill height should be 2 meters because it will have the most kinetic energy to keep it going.9. With an initial drop height of 5m and a hill height of 2 m, there will be 1462J of kinetic energy which is more than all of the other trials.10. When the drop height is 5 meters that will give you the most potential energy which also will then transfer into more kinetic energy as it moves, but if you add a hill the PE and KE will change a little bit more throughout the ride.11. If you want a rollercoaster to be fun and exciting usually you add hills and loops and you need as much potential energy and kinetic energy as you can get.12. A height of 2 meters will give you 1462J of kinetic energy at the top of the hill which will give you enough kinetic energy to make it over the hill and add more hills and loops to make the rollercoaster more fun and exciting.13. The mass of the car should be 60 kilograms because it gives you 2936J of potential energy at the top and 2930J of kinetic energy as it is in motion.14. The masses that are less than 60kg all had less potential and kinetic energy so they wouldn't make it as far as the 60kg car and when you add loops and hills you need as much kinetic energy as you can get so that the car will make it to the end.15. The more mass there is the more potential energy you start off with to get more kinetic energy as it moves.16. When there is more mass there will be more potential energy because there is more mass that will be pushing with gravity as the car goes down.17. That also means that since there is more potential energy at the start there will be more energy to transfer into kinetic energy as it moves, so this means that mass has a direct relationship with potential energy at its initial drop and with kinetic energy at the bottom of the drop.18. I believe that the height of the initial drop should be 5m because in the trial it has 9.88 m/s as its speed at the bottom of the drop and 7.66 m/s at the top of the hill which was the fastest speed out of all of the trials.19. I also think that mass should be 60 because it's kind of in the middle and since mass doesn't affect speed it shouldn't really matter.20. In the trials, the masses we used were 40kg, 50kg, and 60kg.21. In all three trials, they started out with 8.56 m/s at the bottom of the drop, then at the top of the hill, they were all 3.8 m/s.22. They also ended with 8.55 m/s at the end of the ride so therefore there was no change so the mass should not affect the speed.23. The law of conservation of energy states that energy cannot be created or destroyed.24. This means that the design is affected because you aren't able to give it energy as the car goes into motion.25. There needs to be enough potential energy at the beginning to convert into kinetic energy so you are able to have the car make it to the end.26. That means the height of the initial drop needs to have enough potential energy so when there are hills and loops it can still make it over.