discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of this lab is to determine how the acceleration of a system changes when a force is applied and to apply the model determined to solve the challenge. in the experiment the hanging mass changed to determine to impact on the acceleration. the hanging mass was increased by 5 gram each trial. the data support the prediction of the lab which was the hanging mass will impact the acceleration. the acceleration and hanging mass both had a positive direct relationship. this claim is support in the acceleration vs. hanging weight graph. the graph has a positive constant slope. the error bars on the graph showed that there was low error. the data from other lab group supported my results and data. the data from the other group showed that there was a direct relationship between the force applied and the acceleration. the force vs acceleration graph also had a constant positive slope. the theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by a single force would be $f=m a$ which is 2. the experimental mathematical model supports the theoretical equation. in the experimental mathematical model $y=c1 x$ which is 0.0068x294.3 so 2.01. the experimental and theoretical models are very close. other than the hanging weight friction, forces due to air resistance, forces due to the string may be present in the experimental context. they could have cause the slight difference in the experimental context. the mass of the system shows up in the experimental model with the variable x. x is equal to the force of the system force is equal to mass times acceleration. a non-massless string connecting the hanging mass to the cart might affect uniform acceleration of the cart by adding weight to the system. the added mass will impact the acceleration by slowing it down. one systematic error in the experiment could be the position the cart started could have been different between trials. this could have caused the cart to travel longer in different trials which could impact the acceleration. one way this could be avoid is to mark the starting position of the cart for each trial. one constraints in this experiment that may limit the generalizability of my results could be the standard deviation of the scale used to measure the objects. this could have caused the data to be less accurate.