discussion and conclusion:

	     in this lab, the question of what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings was put to the test.

	     the experiment with mass as the independent variable was found to seemingly not impact the period of the pendulum for small swings. this is seen in graph 2, where there appears to be no significant change in the period time of the pendulum when the pendulum had different masses. the experiment with the angle of release as the independent variable was also found to seemingly not impact the period of the pendulum for small swings. this is seen in graph 3, where there once again appears to be no significant differences in the period time of the pendulum when it was released at different angles. the experiment with length as the independent variable, however, did appear to have an impact on the period of the pendulum. as the length of the pendulum was increased, the period time appeared to have increased, as shown in graph 1. then, a precise instrument called a photogate was used to measure the period time of the pendulum at different lengths exactly, as shown in graph 4, giving results indicative of a significant correlation between pendulum length and period time. it can be surmised that as pendulum length is increased, period time generally increases. the research question is thus answered as length, out of length of pendulum, mass of pendulum, and angle of release of pendulum, is the only variable which impacts the period time. however, as the length increases more and more, the period time increases at a smaller and smaller rate.

	     it is notable that as the length increases more and more, the period time increases at a smaller and smaller rate, as seen in graph 4. this leads one to believe that the theoretical mathematical model for calculating the period time of a pendulum is logarithmic. a logarithmic line of best fit was fitted to the curve in graph 4, giving an experimental mathematical model of 


	where t is period time and l is length of the pendulum, which has a correlation of r2 is 0.9999, which means that this model fits the data almost perfectly. this was confirmed by referencing the theoretical mathematical model of

	$t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$

	where t is the period time, l is the length of the pendulum, and g is the gravitational constant. the period time for a pendulum with l is 0.50 meters was calculated with both models, giving an experimental t of 1.418 seconds and a theoretical t of 1.419 seconds. these numbers are almost exactly the same, which indicates that the experimental mathematical model is viable. since the mass and angle of release of the pendulum did not affect the period time, they were not needed to be included in the mathematical model.

	     some random error that was present was the discrepancies in the actual period time and the measured period time, and the angle of release. in an attempt to reduce the discrepancies in the actual and measured period times, 3 periods of the pendulum were measured by three different people at the same time, allowing the average to be taken of the time of each period over the three periods, and of the measured periods of the three different people, giving a much more accurate data collection system. this was not necessary for lab 3, as seen in tables 4 and 9, when a photogate which could accurately measure the period time was used. the random error present in the angle of release was mitigated by using a protractor to accurately measure out the angle of release for the pendulum each time.

	     a constraint in this experiment that may limit the generalizability of the results is that the experiments were performed in near-ideal conditions, inside of a laboratory which had no wind or other external influences. this is important to consider when applying the mathematical model found in the experiment to pendulums in non-ideal conditions, as there may be different than expected results.