discussion and conclusion
the research question for this lab report overall was, what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? to answer this question, we set up three experiments in order to determine whether the mass, angle of release, and length of the pendulum affected the period of the pendulum swing. we tested each variable one at a time, keeping the other two variables controlled for each experiment. when testing the mass, we kept angle and length constant. when testing angle, we kept mass and length constant. and when we tested the length of the pendulum, we kept the mass and the angle constant. 
how did the three experiments help address the overall research question? 
we will first start with the impact of mass on the period of a pendulum. after collecting the data, we compiled it into table 1 and graph 1. when we look at graph 1, we can see that all the data points appear to line up horizontally with all of the error bars overlapping. this shows us that regardless of the mass of the pendulum, the length of the period remains the same, allowing us to conclude that mass does not affect the period of a pendulum for small swings. 
next, we look at the impact of release angle on the period of a pendulum. after collecting the data, we compiled it into table 2 and graph 2. looking at graph 2, we once again see all the data points lining up horizontally, with all error bars overlapping. this again shows us that regardless of the angle of release of the pendulum, the length of the period remains the same. this allows us to conclude that the angle of release does not affect the period of a pendulum for small swings. 

lastly, we look at the impact of string length on the period of a pendulum. after collecting the data, we compiled it into table 3 and graph 3. when we look at graph 3, we can see that as the length of string increases, so does the period of the pendulum. the error bars are negligible, as they cannot even be seen on the graph. the line of best fit can be represented by the power equation, $y=0.2842 x^{0.437}$. after the data analysis we were able to conclude that string length was the only variable that had an impact on the period of a pendulum for small swings. 

how did our data fit the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum? 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is 2⊼√(l/g). in this equation, l represents the length of string while g represents the value of gravity. the measurements we made during the experiment were done in centimeters, therefore we can convert g’s value of 9.8m/s^2, to 980cm/s^2. when we plug in the value of pi and rearrange the equation we can make it $y=0.27 x^{0.5}$ where y is the period of the pendulum. when we take the equation of the line of best fit in graph 3 we see that it is $y=0.28 x^{0.437}$. the data that we collected fits relatively well with the theoretical model that is given to us. the curve that was fit to the graph was a power curve. the mass of the pendulum and the angle of release of the pendulum did not impact the period of the pendulum and therefore are not included in the equation.  

what errors were present and what was done to reduce them? 

one systematic error that was present in our experiment relates to the start of the stopwatch. we had an individual saying “go” and starting the stopwatch, and then another individual who would release the pendulum upon hearing the command. the problem was that there was always a delay between the start of the stopwatch and the release of the pendulum, making every reading longer than it truly was. a random error we discovered in our experimental design related to the stop of the stopwatch. we realized that the point at which the period was complete was entirely up to human judgement. whenever the individual in charge of the stopwatch felt as if a period had been complete, they would stop the stopwatch. this led to both shorter and longer measurements in comparison to the true values. another random error that we found in our experimental design related to the point of release. we were measuring the angle of release with a protractor, on a 2d plane, but the pendulum moves in the 3d plane. we realized that if the release of the pendulum was not perfectly center with the apparatus it was hanging from, the pendulum would not only swing left to right, but also forwards to backwards, which would lead to longer or shorter timings. for the first two errors discussed, we implemented a photogate device to negate these errors. by using a photogate, the device was able to sense when the pendulum had first passed, so it could start the timer, and then sense when it had passed back through in order to stop the timer. this gave us more precise and accurate readings. for the third error, we could implement a device in the future that holds the pendulum perfectly parallel to the apparatus from which it was hanging. keeping it only moving left to right and eliminating the movement back and forth. 

what constraints limit the generalizability of our results? 

the first constraint that limits the generalizability of our results is that we could only create a pendulum model that weighed 300 grams max and 20 grams minimum. therefore, our results can only be generalized to pendulums that weight between 20 and 300 grams. the second constraint that limits the generalizability of our results is that we could only create a pendulum that was a maximum of 200 cm in length due to constraints in space. therefore, our results can only be generalized to pendulums up to 200 cm in length.