discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of this experiment was to see how the acceleration of a system changes when the applied force changes.  by changing the weight of the hanging mass, we can change the acceleration of the cart (see table 1.). using the equation 9.8 m/s2( $m g =1000 f$ we were able to calculate the applied force from the hanging mass on the cart (see table 2.). we derived the equation for calculating the mass from the graph (figure 1.) to be equation $y=7.4026 x + 0.0352$ for the relationship between force and acceleration. with x being force and y being acceleration. this is to see if our equation created from the data founded matches up with the theoretical model $f=m a$, though our model appears to be roughly correct when compared to the theoretical model but fails to replicate the model completely. though the equation we found does produce a graph (see figure 1.) almost identical to our prediction. 

when comparing our data to that of group 3, we found that our equation was off slightly with both having a similar error ad identical uncertainty, they had a more concise full equation. when plugging our data into group 3’s equation we can properly get the values we’d expect to find from $f=m a$. while the models differ for both of our groups group 3’s data still supports our hypothesis and prediction.


	comparing our data to that of group 2, just like in group 3, we have a different experimental mathematical model but still come to the same conclusion. with the data provided supporting our hypothesis and prediction. 

	when comparing our experimental and theoretical models we found that they differ significantly. our experimental model $y=7.4026 x + 0.0352$ or $a=f + 0.0352$ doesn’t match up with the theoretical model $f=m a$. though our model is minimally affected by friction which is why it differs from the theoretical model but is accounted for in our experimental model. the mass of the system shows up in our experimental value as 7.4026 as this would be  but when plugging in the system mass to m we get 5.7372, this can also be achieved by substituting ma for force (n) represented by x. if we had a non-massless string, the acceleration would still be uniform if the resistive forces such as friction or air resistance are minimal to negligible. this will cause the string to be virtually massless. if the strings mass isn’t negligible then the acceleration will increase as the hanging mass falls. this is due to the weight of the string adding to that of the hanging mass, making the acceleration non-uniform. 

	some systematic errors were an inaccurate/inconsistent balance and inconsistent bob masses. there was a level of human error at play with operating the balance but was negligible. using more appropriate objects of mass can help replace the fishing bobs used as these are manufactured with a higher margin of error than that of measuring weights. the error regarding the balance can be lessened by using more advanced and accurate balances and by possibly eliminating the human random error. this experiment has constraints as it does not measure out the added factors of air resistance and friction causing its real-world application to be difficult. though it does help provide an idea of how to find the theoretical model from our experimental model. if this were to consider friction and air resistance it would be more applicable to other world concepts. 

