discussion and conclusion:
	in this lab, we asked what factor would affect the period of a pendulum for small swings. in the first lab, we explored three different factors that would affect the period of the swing is  mass, length, and period. in the first experiment of lab 01, we explored how mass could affect the period (see table 1a). we started off with 50 grams of mass and increased it by 20 grams after every trial, as shown in table 1b. we predicted that the greater the mass, the greater the period. once we collected the data, we observed that there was some error in the third trial of our data, given how it was an offshoot from the slope (see graph 1), and that as the mass increased, the period decreased. which goes to show that mass doesn’t support our prediction.

	in the second experiment, we explored how length could affect the period (see table 2a). we started off with 63 inches and after each trial, reduced the length by 10 inches each time. we made the prediction that the greater the length, the greater the period. in our data, graph 2 shows that the period did indeed increase as the length of the string increased, showing how the data supports our predictions.

	in the third experiment, we explored how the angle of the swing could affect the period of a pendulum (see table 3a). we started with a small angle of 10° and gradually increased it in every trial by 10. we predicted that the greater the angle, the greater the period. after collecting the data, our third graph (graph 3) shows that our predictions were correct, as the angle increased, so did the period of the swing.  

	in our third lab, we tested the factor in string length, which fit with its prediction the most. we again tested this factor at different lengths, but this time used a photogate to give a more accurate reading of the period after each swing (see table 4a). we tested the period for five trials and inputted the data into graph 4. the data showed that the period did in fact increase as the length of the string was increased, but the graph appeared to be non-linear, but appeared to show a power-curve in the data, resulting in the equation $y=0.18062007 x$. our theoretical mathematical model was ,  and our mathematical model was shown to be $y=c1*x^{c2}$. in the mathematical model  is equal to  0.3200. comparing to our 0.4029. the  is  compared to our 0.4483. compared to the equation given by graph 4, we came close to a full model.

	there was a random error in our mass versus period data (table 1b and graph 1) which caused some fluctuation in the data, and in our angle versus period data (table 2b and graph 2) we experienced some systematic error since our angle measurements were slightly off. there was also systematic error in our time measuring given how much time there was in between stopping the stopwatch and stopping the pendulum at the same time. to reduce the random and systematic error in the experiment, we used a photogate to get more accurate measurements of the period over using a stopwatch. we could also reduce random error by performing more trials in our experiment if we had the time.