discussion and conclusion
the overall research question in this lab experiment was that of what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? in order to answer this question, three experiments were performed in which angle of swing, length of pendulum (via length of pendulum string), and mass of pendulum weight were each made independent variables to test the effects of each factor on the period of the pendulum swing (dependent variable). 

through these three experiments, it was found that neither angle of swing or mass of pendulum had any discernible effect to the period of the pendulum swing. this is due to the fact that the graphs of both angle of pendulum release and mass of pendulum weight (figures 1 and 2) possessed relationships in which regardless of the variance in independent variable values (angle of swing or mass of pendulum), the period of the pendulum did not change value accordingly in any significant manner. thus although the x-axis values changed, the y-axis values remained much the same creating a horizontal line (zero slope) association. the length of the pendulum arm string on the other hand was found to show a more discernible correlation with period of pendulum. when the length of the pendulum was increased (shown in figure 3), the period of the pendulum was observed to increase correspondingly. what resulted was a relationship that could be described as almost linear, definitively pointing to an existing correlation between length of pendulum and period of pendulum swing. 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is    $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$    where l represents the length of the pendulum string arm and g represents the acceleratory value of gravity (9.8 ). however, since all calculations and experimentation were done using centimeters as the standard of length measurement, g’s value of 9.8  must be converted to 980 . furthermore, after inserting the value of pi into the model and rearranging the model, a new equation of     $y=0.27 c^{0.59}$       can be derived in which y represents the period length of the pendulum. 

interestingly enough, the line of best fit for the length of pendulum period vs length of pendulum arm string (figure 3) also corresponds to the equation     $y=0.27$*x^0.59      as the two variables do not actually share a linear relationship, but one most similar to a (power) curve.

additionally, it should be noted that since the mass of the pendulum weight and the angle of release of the pendulum did not significantly alter the period length of the pendulum, the two variables are not represented in the equation. 

  a systematic error that was present during the experiment concerned the use of the stopwatch and the timing of the period of each trial in which since the jobs of releasing the pendulum arm string and initiating the timer were delegated to two different people, when a trial was to be initiated, a delay was always present between the time in which the pendulum was released and the time the stopwatch was initiated. thus, a discrepancy was present between. one way to minimize such error would be to utilize a machine with a sensor that could accurately time period completions and initiations immediately based off of placement of the sensor at the period starting (and ending) point. thus, eliminating the need for an additional body to either initiate the drop or time the trials. this error was mitigated with the use of a photogate sensor. 

a random error discovered in the experimental design was that after releasing the pendulum and initiating the timer, the point at which to determine a period distance traveled would be essentially subjectively determined by the person responsible for timing the trial. thus, since no precise measurement method was available besides “eye-balling” the period completion point, the designated timer for the trial could not be necessarily trusted to precisely determined the period point every trial. thus, the precision of the period time measurements could be called into question as the timer would be equally as likely to determine the period completion point as before or later than the true time. a way that could be use to minimize such error would be again to utilize  a machine with a sensor that could precisely determine period time lengths based off of placement of the sensor at the starting (and end point) of the period. this error was mitigated with the use of a photogate sensor.

an additional random error discovered was that since the pendulum moved within a 3d plane, the pendulum was also liable to travel laterally within its path (even if centered initially) which could alter the timing of the pendulum period times. thus, in response to this error a guiding mechanism could be built which would help guide the pendulum in a parallel path without any additional lateral movement.

 a constraint that may limit the generalizability of the results is the random error previously          discussed (3rd error) in which the lateral movement of the pendulum could not be prevented which in turn could alter the true period time results of the pendulum.