discussion

according to the data gathered, the increase in hanging mass (applied force) causes an increase in acceleration in a linear fashion. graph 1 shows this linear relationship and the derived model based on the line of best fit for the eight trials done. the error bars were present on the graph, but not visible so the variance between data points was definitely not due to error, it was due to the effects of force on acceleration. this addressed the research question because the relationship clearly shows that there is an effect of force on acceleration, and that effect is a linear increase with the model $y=0.0053 x - 0.0443$.

 according to the physics phour group, their findings were consistent with ours. they also found a linear relationship between applied force and acceleration with a model of $y=0.005 x - 0.0563$ which was very similar to ours as well. this supports our conclusions. 


the second group (unnamed on whiteboard poster) in my lab’s findings also supports our findings is  they discovered an increasing linear relationship between hanging mass and acceleration as applied force increased. their experimental model was found to be $y=0.004 x + 0.1097$ which is again similar to ours but with a slightly different y-intercept. 

the actual equation for applied force and acceleration can be found in the equation $f = m a$  the experimental model supports this model, even though there is a small y-intercept. this y-intercept could be accounted for by the error in the measurements or the factors we couldn’t account for, such as gravity, or the small amount of friction between the cart and the track. 

should the string used have been heavy or had a non-negligible mass, there would’ve been a noticeable effect on the acceleration. as more of the string’s mass is on the side of the cart, which would’ve added to the mass being pulled by the force of the hanging weight, the acceleration would’ve been lower. but, as more of the string’s mass was located on the side of the hanging weight, it would’ve increased the force applied and therefore increased the acceleration.

random error was present in the measurements of acceleration, but they are included and accounted for. this random error occurred during each acceleration measurement and is shown in table 2 and the error bars for each trial are on the graph but are so small they aren’t visible. however, this error doesn’t affect the data too much since they are generally very small compared to the acceleration and do not exclude any of the data points. this could only be reduced by using more accurate software to detect the acceleration.

the constraints of this experiment include not taking into account the force of gravity, the slight friction between the cart and the track, or the mass of the string on the cart. however, these are fairly minor and allowed us to create an experimental model that was close enough to the theoretical model to be useful. this experiment could fairly easily be repeated and one could obtain similar results as long as the exact same cart, track, and datastudio station are used so that the constraints and negligible factors are the same. however, the error for each acceleration measurement will be different based on the software so that random error can’t be completely avoided but by using the same station it would likely be consistent enough so the user can obtain similar data.