discussion 

	in this lab our group set out to determine what variables affect the period of the pendulum and to test this research question we set up three different tests.  each test was used to determine if each factor tested had any effect on the period of a pendulum.  the three factors used were weight of the pendulum, the length of the string used, and the angle of release.



	each of the three factors helped contribute to the main research question by the way their data lines up.  for the length of the string you can see a direct parallel to the length of the string and the period of the pendulum, as the string length became longer the period would increase as shown by the positive slope of the graph.  the mass of the pendulum didn’t have a direct correlation to the period of the pendulum as you can see as the weight increased the period neither increased or decreased but instead stayed around 1.4 seconds for the period.  the angle of release for the pendulum also didn’t directly affect the period as seen in it’s graph, as the angle of release for the period increased the period didn’t change, staying within the average between 1.89-1.9 seconds.  the research conducted shows that length of string is the only factor of the three chosen to have a direct effect on period.
	using the theoretical mathematical model of the pendulum (2pi*sqrt(length/gravity)) we can see how it directly relates to our data gathered.  length is a part of the actual equation, so it goes to show that if it were to change then the period of the pendulum should change in some form.  figure 1 shows us this showing us that as the length is increasing the period is increasing.  the equation doesn’t use mass or angle of release, while you’d thing that yes, these factors should change the period it’s quite simple why they wouldn’t.  gravity is a universal constant at 9.81 m/s^2, and while gravity is acting down on the pendulum as it swings the mass and the angle still are under the force of gravity and therefore do not contribute to period.  this is easily justified by their data in figure 2 and figure 3 as each variable increased the period barely changed.
	during this experiment there were a few systematic errors that could have affected our data while we only found one random error that could have affected our data.  for the random error when we gathered time at first, we rounded our time up or down which can create inaccurate data.  to fix this we then used a photogate which kept an extremely close check on the average for each swing through.  for systematic error the first thing to cause issue was the calibration of the scale, for each test we needed to know the exact weight of the pendulum and if incorrectly measured our data could be skewed.  to fix this we calibrated the scale to one decimal place.  another error in timing is our slow reflexes when timing the period as the delay to stop the timer adds extra time to the general average.  the photogate was also the solution to this error.  one of the last errors was calibrating the correct length of string.  since the string length was directly related to the period an incorrect measurement could mean incorrect results so to make sure this didn’t happen we made sure to measure from the same starting point on each string
	one major constraint for this lab was time, generally we had around one and a half hours to get our equipment set up our data collected, and our area cleaned up afterwards.  having to collect three sets of data made it a faster paced process and generally rushed results tend to lead to inaccurate results.
	following our research done in this lab there are two things to be concluded from our results.  one, the length of string used have a direct affect on the period of the pendulum.  two, the mass of the pendulum and the angle of release have no affect on the period of the pendulum.


“for this lab the data for string length was our own but the mass and angle of release was data collected by students from previous years given to us by our instructor.  we are not the owners of this data but our instructor gave us permission to use it.”