discussion and conclusion

	how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes?  in the first week of this experiment, data was gathered to determine whether or not the applied hanging force on the block would affect the acceleration of the block.  for this experiment, the acceleration was collected at applied forces of 0.39 n, 0.29 n, 0.19 n, and 0.1 n by changing the mass that hung from the string off the side of the track and block.  this data is seen in table 2 and the data was plotted in figure 1.  the results of experiment showed that the larger the applied force on the block, the larger the acceleration.  the data gathered for figure 1 shows a linear line of fit with the equation of $y=3.9206 x + 0.1413$.  this equation fits the prediction and hypothesis from the beginning of the experiment that the applied force on the block does affect the acceleration of the block.  

	in the second week of this experiment, data from two other groups was gathered to help support or refute the data gathered in the first week.  according to the two groups, group 1 and group 6 from section 004 of phys 1051l as seen in figure 2 and figure 3, the data is supported as both groups had positive slopes to their graphs of applied force vs acceleration.  

	from the experimental model gathered in week 1 of this experiment compared to the theoretical model of this experiment, there are some differences that are shown in the experiment.  the theoretical equation for the acceleration of just one force is $f=m_{sys} a$.  in the experimental model, the equation has a slope of 3.9 and a y-intercept of 0.14.  the theoretical model of this experiment based on the mass of the system provide a slope of 5.2 and a y-intercept of 0.  one force that may be affecting the experiment and leading to an error in data is the force of air from the machine creating a frictionless runway.  this second force changes the theoretical equation of the model to $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$ this is present in the experimental model in the y-intercept, which shows that there is still acceleration without any applied force.  in the theoretical model, the y-intercept should be 0, showing that there is no acceleration without an applied force.  the mass of the system shows up in the experimental model in the slope of the graph.  the slope of the graph represents 1/mass of system, which in this experiment should produce a slope of 5.2.  in this experiment, the mass of the string was considered negligible.  if a non-massless string was connecting the hanging mass to the cart, the string would still have a uniform acceleration because it is still included in the mass of the system.

	some random errors that may have factored into the data collected include the mass of the hanging bobbers on the string and the proper release from the distance from the end.  these random errors could have been reduced in this experiment by checking all the measurements of the bobbers before conducting each trial to make sure the exact mass of the hanging force was accurate.  some systematic errors that could have factored into the experiment data include the errors in the program used to measure the acceleration and in the balance calibration for measuring the masses of the bobbers and cart.  these systematic errors could have been fixed if they were identified, as the tool could be fixed.  some constraints in this experiment include more precise resources to accurately set the mass for the hanging force. 
