conclusion:
  To me, it doesn’t seem like there is a big enough difference between the results of experiment 1a for me to confidently say that there is a correlation between time and weight. 
  According to the graph for experiment 1b, there seems to be a slight correlation between drop angle and time. The slightness of the differences between the results I believe is due to us not spreading our values out far enough. Increase in drop angle results in a slight increase of period length. 
   There most certainly is a relationship between the length of string used and the length of period. I feel that the effect would be better observed with spread out values. Increase in string length results in a longer period length.
   The point of this lab session was to teach us about types of errors and strengthen our ability to determine and reduce them. We didn’t really have a question set up for this experiment, and a hypothesis is unnecessary due to the fact that most, if not all, experiments suffer from some type of error. For this experiment, we essentially used data from experiment one, along with data collected to determine the range of error. We learned about random errors and systematic errors, and how to determine which ones were affecting our experiment. We determined that our experiment suffered from human error (reaction time, repeating the exact drop angle), possible unsecured pendulum, and a margin of error in the tools used to conduct the experiment. Ways to eliminate these errors would be to use computers to conduct the experiments, use of more precise tools, and to increase the trial runs and use the average. By observing the results (graphs) of the previous experiment session we can see whether or not there was a strong relationship between the variables used. The group and I ran a test of ten trials with time as our dependent variable and all other variables as controls. We used this data to determine our standard deviation/ % error, which was then used to add error bars to our data graphs. At the end of this experiment it was determined that we could not conclusively find significant correlation between period length (time) and length of string, angle of drop, and pendulum weight. Data from the graphs overlap for all categories. It was concluded that our independent variables were too close together for all portions of the experiment, high rate of human error occurred, and any correlation that would have occurred was masked by the amount of error.  
   Despite following instructions, we were still unable to create a perfect model, even after attempting to reduce error. This goes to show that error is almost impossible to get rid of and will most likely remain a natural part of scientific experimentation. Though, as we’ve learned within these lab sessions, we can correct for error to get as close to a “true value” as we can.  These experiments and the tasks within aided in my learning of physics and contributed to my developing teamwork skills. 
