discussion and conclusion

the purpose of these experiments was to determine which of the three independent variables affected the period of the pendulum for small swings. the three independent variables being investigated were mass (grams), angle (degrees), and length of string (centimeters). figure 1, a graph of mass vs. period, has some points of uncertainty. some values overlap and are the same, this indicates that there is no significant impact of mass on the period. figure 2, a graph of angle of release vs. period, also has some points of uncertainty. there are several values that are the same or very close in value, this indicates that there is no significant impact that the angle of release has on the period of the pendulum. figure 3, a graph of length of string vs. period, has no points of uncertainty. the graph shows a positive linear slope which indicates a clear change in the period of the pendulum as the length of the string increases. this supports the hypothesis that the length of the string has an affect on the period of the pendulum. 

the theoretical model only pertains to the length of the string because it was the only variable to impact the period of the pendulum. figure 4, graph of length of string vs period with photogate was used to determine our model because of the standard deviation which was 0.543. our model, which was $y=0.12358008 x$ fit pretty well with the theoretical model. the line of best fit was a power line and had an r-squared value of 0.9936. mass and angle of release did not impact the period of the pendulum. best fit lines could not be drawn for these two variables because of points of uncertainty caused by overlapping values. the mass vs. period graph had an r-squared value of 0.866 and the angle vs. period has a r-squared value of 0.853 which prove to not be significant enough to fit a theoretical model. 

many errors could have occurred when performing this experiment. one error that occurred was using the balance to weigh the pendulum, the scale is not completely accurate because it used so many times, this is an example of a systematic error. another systematic error could be that the protractor was off when measuring the angles, giving an imprecise angle measurement. a random error that occurred during this experiment was the reaction time when using the stopwatch to record the time of the period. other random errors that occurred were when measuring the angle with the protractor and the length of the string with the tape measure. these random errors would result in inaccurate measurements and results. 

this experiment contained many constraints that may limit the generalizability of the results. each independent variable had its own limits and could have been tested further. the mass was only tested with the range of 50-130 grams. (table 5) the angle of release was only tested from 5-20 degrees. (table 6) the length of the string was only tested from 40-172 centimeters. (table 8.) all of these variables could have been further tested with a wider range which would have decreased the limitations of the experiment.