discussion:

	the purpose of this lab was to determine the effect of the applied force on the acceleration. the experiment performed kept the mass of the overall system constant, at 0.189 kg. the applied force was changed and the acceleration of the overall system was measured and the mathematical model can be represented by the equation, $a=5.1366 f - 0.0022$. this means that the relationship between acceleration can be represented by multiplying the force by the inverse of the mass to get the acceleration. this is a linear relationship and support the prediction in table 1 of a linear relationship between the applied force and the acceleration. the y-intercept of the graph is relatively close to 0 and this could be due to air resistance or friction from the string to the pulley. 



the mathematical model formed by group 3 relates closely to the mathematical model formed by my group. the hypothesis produced by group 3, as well as their data points, aligned closely to the data points shown in table 2. this supports the mathematical model formed by group 5 (my group). the slope of the mathematical model of group 3 also relates the inverse of the overall system and the y-intercept is relatively close to 0, accounting for any possible friction or air resistance. group 4 has similar findings as groups 3 and 5, which further support the claims made by all three groups. the mathematical model of group 4 also showed a positive linear relationship, with the slope of the line represented by the inverse of the mass of the system and the y-intercept is relatively close to 0. all hypotheses from all three groups are similar and the data points for each align similarly. all three findings can also be related to the theoretical model, $a=\frac{f}{m} + f_f$ 

other forces that might be present other than the hanging weight could be the force due to friction or air resistance would be represented by the y-intercept of the mathematical model. this shows that because of these other forces, the acceleration would not be exactly 0 when the applied force. it can be assumed that these forces are negligible in this experiment. since the mass of the entire system is constant, this mass can be found as the inverse of the slope of the mathematical model. this is also proven in the theoretical model because the physics equation, $f=m a$ can be manipulated into $a=\frac{f}{m}$, where the inverse of the mass is multiplied by the applied force, giving the acceleration of the system. if the string used to connect the cart to the hanging force is non-massless, it would cause the cart to undergo a nonuniform acceleration because the string is contributing to the overall mass of the system and would cause the acceleration to increase as more mass is added to the hanging force.

one source of random error could be if the string was not straight on the pulley, the hanging mass could be pulled to one side or the other, affecting the acceleration directionally, and therefore, in momentum as well. this could be reduced by using a thicker string on a pulley with higher sides so that it cannot fall off. a source of systematic error that could affect the relationship between acceleration and applied force would be if the acceleration calculator was not properly calibrated, and therefore giving values higher or lower than expected. this could be reduced by purchasing newer computers that can give acceleration of a system to a more specific and precise degree. another source of systematic error could be the scale not being properly zeroed before taking measurements. this could impact the overall mass of the system as well as impact the hanging mass, and therefore, the calculated applied force of the system would be inaccurate. this could be reduced by using electric scales that can be zeroed with a button, rather than predicting when it is perfectly zeroed.

one possible constraint that might limit the generalizability of the results in this experiment could be contributed to air resistance in the system. this was deemed to be negligible. another constraint might be due to friction between the string and the pulley. this was also deemed to be negligible. due to these factors, a clear relationship between acceleration and applied force cannot be generalized because these factors were not held constant.