discussion and conclusion: 

this experiment took place over the course of three weeks. the purpose behind the last three lab sessions was to investigate what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings. each of the three experiments helped address this question because during the first experiment, the factors that could impact the period of a pendulum were determined is  the length of the string (cm), the angle of the swing (degrees), and the mass that was added (g). during the second experiment, students ran separate trials on the three factors that were believed to impact the period of the pendulum. take a look at figure 1 above and it can be seen that the length of the string had the greatest correlation and effects the period of the pendulum the most. looking at figure 2, it can be said that there is no correlation between the mass and period of the pendulum. finally, looking at figure 3, it can be said that there is a small correlation between the angle of the swing and the period of the pendulum. during the third experiment, the mathematical model for the period the pendulum was identified and the relationship between the various variables of the period of a pendulum was determined. the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. it was already determined from table 1 and figure 1 that the length of the string had the greatest effect on the period of the pendulum, but after going through the various variables, it became clear that string length (plus weight holder) and gravity were both factors as expressed in the theoretical mathematical model. while answering the question of what factor impacts the period of a pendulum, it was found that both, random and systematic errors were present. possible random errors that were present included is  inaccurate reads on the protractor, error in measuring the period of the pendulum properly, and no averages being taken. systematic errors that were present included weights not being properly labeled and the stopwatches not being calibrated properly. in order to reduce random errors, one can begin by taking the averages of all techniques and measurements. in order to reduce systematic errors, one can begin by weighing the weights on a scale to get an accurate weight. also, using multiple stopwatches and taking the average to get a more accurate reading. there were a few constraints that occurred in this experiment which could have affected the generalizability of the results. one constraint would be time because the lab sessions are only two hours long so the amount of trials that could be run were limited. also, due to this limited time, students might have felt rushed and may not have obtained accurate results which could have affected the generalizability of the results. another constraint in this experiment would be the lab equipment. if the lab equipment differed from each lab session throughout the experiment, the results might have been less precise or inaccurate. a third constraint in this experiment would be the limited workspace. for example, the apparatus was only a certain height which caused the length of the string which was being tested to be only so long (180 cm). if the apparatus was moved or was taller, a longer string length could have been measured. also, the angle of the swing could only be pulled back to a certain angle before the students started running into the students working behind them. these are just a few of the constraints to occur throughout this experiment, all affecting the generalizability of the results obtained.