Discussion and Conclusion
The error bars also serve to indicate if the difference between trials is scientifically significant. At first glance the object mass v pendulum swing graph measurements (Data table 1) appear to be different values in a negatively linear pattern. However, with the error bars added in it is apparent that all the data points overlap within ranges of uncertainty. Therefore, it is impossible to be certain that any of these points are not the same and the differences are only due to systematic or random error. The claim can be made that these two variables are not related.
	The length of the string v the pendulum swing graph measurements (Data table 2) is visibly unique from the other two graphs. A part of the data is significantly different than the rest of the data since error bars to not overlap. Because the error bars do not overlap, it is reasonable to believe that the difference in measurements is not due to random error. The claim can be made that these two variables are related.
 The angle of release v the pendulum swing graph measurements (Data table 3) most obviously all fall within the range of uncertainty. Because all four data points clearly have overlapping error bars it can clearly be ruled out as nearly the same time. Angle of release clearly does not affect the pendulums’ swing. The claim can be made that these two variables are not related.
By comparing the level of overlap between data points in each of the three graphs, students were able to determine that the object mass v length of the pendulum swing and the angle of release v length of the pendulum swing both were not significantly related to each other. Because all points overlap, it is impossible to say that they are not the same number within standard error. Students were able to determine that the length of string used v pendulum swing were significantly related to each other and chose to investigate further.
	With this new information, students were able to test the validity of the three original hypothesizes and eliminate two of the three possible variables. The group redesigned a more accurate experiment to test how the length of the string affects the pendulums’ swing. To minimize random error from stop watches and pendulum strides, a Photogate motion monitor replaced students hand measurements. Random errors would be accounted for in the range of uncertainty. Systematic errors that shift all data to “one side” could be reduced by double checking the mass of the weights and taking care to be sure the stand is level.
	Figure 4 shows a nonlinear relationship between the period of the swing (s), the dependent variable, and the length of the string, the independent variable. It is, instead, a power relationship. The fitting tool in Excel was used to determine the curve of the line $y=2.0613 x^{0.4108}$. The r^2 value was generated through excel as well and came out to a value of 0.9986, which is extremely high and indicates a strong relationship between the variables.
	The following is the theoretical equation for the period of the period of a pendulum.
	$t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ which is  [2π/(g^0.5)]L^0.5
	
	The curved line equation does not match this theoretical equation exactly. Because the Photogate has a level of uncertainty of 0.001 (given in the lab records) and the r^2 is less than 1, it is expected that both equations will not match exactly. The mathematical model produced from the lab data supports the theoretical model. The only way to achieve more a more accurate would be under perfect conditions, which is nearly impossible. Thus, brings up the constraints of this experiment is  that a perfect experiment would be impossible in a classroom setting.