discussion and conclusion:  



in this lab we tested the relationship between the independent variables mass, angle, and length and the dependent variable of the period time of a pendulum. we did this by conducting three separate experiments to establish concrete results on what independent variables truly affected the time of the period of a pendulum.

in experiment 1, we tested each of the independent variables by changing one while keeping the other two variables constant throughout. doing this allowed us to see what variable, if any, had a direct correlation of any sort on the time of the period. first, we manipulated the length of the string and looking at table 4 and figure 1, it is clear that the length of the string has a direct linear relationship with the time of the period. as the length of the string increased, the time of the period also increased with it. the second variable we manipulated to draw a correlation was mass and if you look at table 5 and figure 2, it can be seen that there is a direct correlation between mass and period, but it is a negative relationship. looking at the data for mass, we can conclude that mass and the period of the pendulum have an indirect correlation. however, later on we discovered that mass doesn’t actually have an effect on the period, but since no experiment is perfect the error was present and skewed our overall results for mass. the third and last variable we manipulated was the angle of release for our pendulum. looking at table 6 and figure 3, it can be seen that there isn’t really much of a correlation between the angle of release and the period of the pendulum. when the angle that the pendulum was released at was increased, the time of the period was about the same throughout. the results of this part of our experiment allowed us to conclude that there is no relationship between the angle of release and the period of the pendulum. 

in our second experiment we focused on determining the uncertainty present in our past experimental trials. to begin with, we took a look at what random errors could have occurred at various times throughout our tests of the variables in experiment 1. some random errors that we were able to identify included not starting and stopping the timer accurately, miscounting periods, and not keeping the angle of release precisely the same each time. solutions to our potential random errors include having just one person in charge of the stopwatch and also only having just one person controlling the angle of release each and every time. changing these two things would help keep things more constant than switching things around every time. another solution to our other random error is to clarify what the group wants to count as one period. this would ensure correct calculations because the same number is being counted out each time in order to guarantee a more precise and accurate period. there were also some systematic errors that we discussed including, the string slipping from the apparatus when swung, slight mass variations of the labeled weights, and a small uncertainty associated with the measuring tape itself.  in order to limit the effect of systematic errors we concluded that we could remeasure and tighten the string around the apparatus each time, measure length with two different tapes, and physically weighing the mass of each weight prior to attaching it to the pendulum in order to account for potential slight variations.  another thing we did for this experiment was calculate the standard deviation. this was done by performing another trial using a mass of 70 grams, a string length of 40 cm, and an angle of 45 degrees. the trial above yielded a standard deviation of +,- .0078888, which is very close to zero and therefore it is indicated that all data points are relatively close to the average or the mean. 

the goal of the third and final experiment was to effectively conclude which variables actually affect the period and what mathematical model explains the relationship between the independent and dependent variable. part of this experiment was proving that length is the only variable that should truly affect the period of the pendulum. the error bars on our angle and length graphs supported this conclusion, but as previously stated mass was falsely shown to have an effect on the period partially due to our random errors. focusing on table 7 and figure 4 relating to the length vs time of the period, we see that the equation of the line is $y=0.0105 x + 0.78$ which is linear, but the curve that best fits this line is the power law with the equation $y=0.3105 x^{0.4166}$. the results of this experiment seem to fit better than our other previous results, but they still aren’t exact in accordance with the full theoretical mathematical model of $y=\frac{2 l}{g}$. since we never tested for acceleration our results aren’t completely accurate because the full mathematical model takes acceleration into account as well, which is a constraint in the overall results of our experiment. the model would determine that at a length of .5 meters the period should be 1.42 seconds, but our data gives us a period of 1.59 seconds with the same length of .5 meters. if we would have included acceleration as a part of our experiment, then our results would be closer to the values that the mathematical model yields according to the derived equation.