Results
The purpose of the first part of the lab that was completed during lab 05 was to develop a mathematical model to predict the motion of an object due to an applied force. The purpose of the second part of the lab that was completed during lab 06 was to compare mathematical models calculated with other team’s calculated mathematical models. The research question for this lab was to determine how the acceleration of a system changes when the applied force changes. The data obtained in table 2 and figure 1 from the experiment conducted contributed to the mathematical model by finding the trendline of the graph. There are vertical and horizontal error bars on the points for figure 1 (graph of hanging weight graph vs acceleration) but they are too small to be depicted. The equation of the line of best fit is $Y=0.0499 x - 0.0106$. The uncertainty of the mass- 0.05g- was obtained by the smallest markers on the scale and measured by the data studio program and is depicted by the horizontal error bars. The uncertainties of the acceleration vary point by point and are shown in table 2 as well depicted on the graph by the vertical error bars. The model $y= C1 X + C2$ and an actual equation of $y=5.34 x + 0.006$ was obtained from figure 1. This equation was used to compare with the theoretical model calculated (with the given mass of the system).  The comparison between the theoretical and experimental model explains whether the experimental model was significant or not. The comparison also provides necessary information to calculations for the external forces acting on the system. 
Findings and data from two other groups, the 3G1B and the Dusty pigeons, were used as well to compare the results with the data calculated from our group. The data of 3G1B is in figure 4 and the data from the Dusty Pigeons is in figure 5.  The data from 3G1B indicates that they calculated the same theoretical C1 value of 5.34 but they had a different experimental C1 value of 4.6961. This indicates that they had more error in their experiment than we did, but the values are relatively close to one another (Figure 4). The 3G1B had a had a Fext value of 0.0179 N and Dusty Pigeons had a Fext value of 0.0038 N. Both teams had larger Fext values than our team did (0.0011 N). This data supports our model because our team had less errors than the other two teams who had more error in their C1 theoretical experimental. This indicates that the other two teams had more external forces in their system than our team did. 
The experimental and theoretical models were compared in order to find significance, forces, and other factors within the experiment. There may be many forces acting on the system such as friction, air resistance, and others. The external forces appear in the experimental model as the value C2. The equation is $C2 = \frac{F_{ext}}{M_{sys}}$. The value of the external forces that are acting on the system are calculated from this equation because the mass of the system is known. The mass of the system appears in the experimental model as the value C1. The equation for C1 is $C1= \frac{1}{m_{sys}}$. A non-massless string connecting the hanging mass to the cart would not affect the uniform acceleration of the cart. Using the theoretical math equation, the string connecting the hanging mass to the cart is weighed with the cart. But if is a frictionless track and wheel, then the mass of the string connecting the hanging mass to the cart does not really affect the uniform acceleration of the cart. 
There were errors that were present and could have been reduced as well as constraints in the experiment that limited the generalizability of the results. Systematic errors are those that make the measurement different than the assumed. These would allow the values to be higher or lower than the assumed value. An example of these errors in this experiment include zeroing the scale. Fixing the problem or zeroing the scale are the best ways to limit systematic errors.  Random errors are those that vary from one measurement to another due to measuring devices or the technique. An example of random error in this experiment is weighing the cart or the mass of the bobs and estimating significant figures when reading the measurement, like reading past the dash mark. A way to prevent/limit these errors is by repeating the measurements and taking an average. The constraints in the experiment that limited the generalizability of the results included the varying masses of the carts and bobs. The bobs did not all weigh the exact same and the carts had different measurements. The different masses of the hanging mass or the system leads to different accelerations that are used to calculate the results. Because of this, the results calculated in this team is only applicable to this team and less to others because the results are specific to the masses that was used and not generally known masses for the experiment. 