discussion and conclusion

the research question being investigated in this lab is how the independent variables of string length, mass of block, and angle of release affect the dependent variable of pendulum period. while one independent variable was being tested, the other independent variables were kept constant. 
according to part 1 of the experiment, we determined that the angle of release had no effect on the period of the pendulum. table 1b shows that the period slightly increased each time the angle of release increased. supporting the data of table 1b, figure 1 shows a minor linear relationship between angle of release and the period with slightly overlapping error bars between data points.  however, we attribute this linear relationship to be caused by a random error.  at the highest angle, when we were pulling the pendulum, our base was a bit unstable, and started tipping a bit. this caused it to rock back and forth a little, which was a random error that threw our measurements off and gave us a positive relationship when there shouldn’t have been. one way we could have fixed this is by making sure that the base was firmly attached to a surface with a binding object so that it wouldn’t wobble. thus, the angle of release had no observed effect on the period of the pendulum. therefore, we reject our hypothesis that the angle of release would influence the period of the pendulum.

according to part 2 of the experiment, we determined that the string length did influence the period of the pendulum. table 2b shows that as the string length was increased, the period also increased. supporting the data of table 2b, figure 2 shows a strong, positive, and linear relationship between string length and period. in figure 2, there were absolutely no overlaps between error bars. thus, the string length does influence the period of the pendulum. as the string length increases, the period of the pendulum also increases. therefore, we accept our hypothesis that the string length does have an influence on the period of the pendulum.
according to part 3 of the experiment, we determined that the mass of the block had no effect on the period of the pendulum. table 3b shows that the period of the pendulum stayed the same as the mass of the block increased. supporting the data of table 3b, figure 3 shows large error bars overlapping between all three data points. according to the equivalency criterion, this signifies that a relationship could not be confirmed. thus, the mass of the block had no observed effect on the period of the pendulum. therefore, we reject our hypothesis that the mass of the block would influence the period of the pendulum. 
since the string length did impact the period of the pendulum, we decided to use a photogate to analyze the influence of string length on period of pendulum in a more precise manner. according to part 4 of our experiment, we confirmed that the string length did influence the period of the pendulum. table 4 shows that as the string length was increased, the period of pendulum also increased. supporting the data of table 4, figure 4 shows a strong, positive relationship between string length and period of pendulum with a high r2 value of 0.9691. in figure 4, the error bars represent the photogate’s range of uncertainty of .001. the error bars are not visible. this is because the error bars are very small compared to the difference in the data points. thus, the string length does influence the period of the pendulum. as the string length increases, the period of the pendulum also increases. therefore, we confirm our hypothesis that the string length does have an influence on the period of the pendulum.
the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is , where “t” refers to the time of the period in seconds, “l” refers to the length of the string in meters, and “g” refers to acceleration due to gravity (-9.8 m/s2). this theoretical model fits the curve of figure 4 and the data points of table 4. however, it does not include the independent variables of mass and angle of release. therefore, this theoretical model does not apply to figures and tables where the independent variable is something other than string length. as seen in figure 4, the experimental mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is , where “t” refers to the time of the period in seconds and “l” refers to the length of the string in meters. for a string length of 0.087 meters, according to the experimental mathematical model, the period equals 0.79 seconds. for a string length of 0.087 meters, according to the theoretical mathematical model, the period equals 0.592 seconds. the period derived from the experimental model is slightly higher than the period derived from the theoretical model. this means that although the experimental model supports our hypothesis that the string length has an influence on the period of a pendulum, it is not very accurate. our experimental model is not very accurate because we could only collect 5 data points with the photogate, which is not much. due to the time constraint of the lab, we could not collect many data points. if we had more time, we could have taken more measurements and our experimental mathematical model could have been more accurate.
random errors in this lab include stopping the stopwatch prematurely or too late due to reaction time variability; stopping the mass prematurely or too late due to reaction time variability; and not releasing the weight from the correct angle due to distortion of perspective by the glass. 
there were also systematic errors in this lab. one of them being that the measuring tape used to measure the string length was bent. this would cause the measured value of the string length to be slightly longer than the actual string length each time the string was measured. another systematic error encountered in this lab is that the measuring tape used to measure the sting length had a steel head. when measuring the string length, if the steel head was not accounted for, each measured value of string length would be shorter than its actual value.  

some systematic and random errors have been reduced in this lab while others could be reduced if the lab were to be repeated in the future. the random error of reaction time was reduced in this lab by using a photogate to collect data on the impact of string length on the period of the pendulum. the photogate reduced random error since the time was started or stopped automatically whenever the pendulum passed over the photogate. this greatly reduced error due to human reaction time. however, since the photogate was not used for the independent variables of block mass and angle of release, the random error for experiments involving these independent variables was not reduced. the random error for these variables could be reduced in the future by using a photogate to avoid reaction time errors. to reduce the random error of not releasing the weight from the correct angle, a viewing glass could be used in future experiments to ensure that the weight is being released from the correct angle. 
to reduce systematic errors in measuring tape in future experiments, we must make sure that the measuring tape is top condition—bendiness and damages should be fixed. also, to avoid systematic error in measurement in future experiments caused by the steel head of the measuring tape, we could use alternate measuring devices, such as a ruler. 
there were some constraints in this experiment that limited the generalizability of our results. first, we didn’t have time to take enough measurements. therefore, we didn’t have enough data to firmly/accurately determine whether each of the independent variables had a relationship with the dependent variable. also, we didn’t have enough data to come up with an accurate mathematical model. another constraint of this experiment is that we used the photogate only to determine the influence of string length on period. we didn’t get to use a photogate to determine whether mass or angle of release had any influence on period. if we had the opportunity to use the photogate for these variables as well, then we could have gotten accurate data on these variables. 
in conclusion, this experiment examined how angle of release, length of string, and mass of block affected the period of a pendulum. only the length of the string was discovered to influence the period of the pendulum. as the length of the string increased, the period of the pendulum also increased.  the angle of release and the mass of the block did not have any effect on the period of the pendulum.
