discussion and conclusion

this lab sequence was completed to understand the fundamentals of newton’s first and second laws as well as how to properly manipulate them in a real-life system. using a sled and string with attachable weights, it was possible to demonstrate acceleration changes on the constant system. the research question for this experiment asked how the acceleration of a system changes when a force is applied. since the system was kept at a constant mass, realigning the weights to increase applied force (hanging weight) was possible to see how exactly the acceleration changed. using the general concept, a mathematical model can be constructed, relating applied force, mass, friction, and acceleration. 

this sequence resulted in supporting the idea that applied force directly impacts the acceleration of the system. as mass was shifted from the top of the system on the cart to the hanging weight at the bottom of the pulley increased the applied force. this increase in applied force made the system have a greater acceleration as it moved along the track (see table 1.3). plotting acceleration over force generated a linear trendline, further supporting the direct relation between the two variables. this line, $y=4.7453 x + 0.077$ would serve as the mathematical model of this system (see graph 1.1). while newton’s equation of [$a =\frac{f}{m}$] ($f=m a$) represents the system well as a theoretical model, it only accounts for a singular force. the linear equation of $y=m x + b$ can more accurately depict the system, defining y as acceleration, m as (1/mass), x as applied force, and b as force of friction. this model accounts for possible uncertainties that would arise while using newton’s equation. 

with multiple groups attempting to answer the same research question, comparisons to results and models can be done. the first noted group had a nearly identical setup of variables and manipulation, and the results of which were rather comparable to the prior mentioned results and supported the findings. while the mathematical model of $y= 0.3123 x + 0.2789$ may not seem to directly align with the found model, numbers are based on the differences in applied forces and mass of their system. when changing the applied forces, resulting accelerations were in close proximity to those found in this experimental design. the best explanation for the discrepancy in models is that the numbers used in applied force (1.45, 1.94, 2.44 n) were off by a factor of 10, and thus impacted the resulting trendline (phys 1051l-015, group 1). another group, however, did not support the resulting claims made in this sequence. while having the same variables and manipulations made as well as stating the direct correlation between applied force and acceleration, the mathematical model was not close to fully support what was found. the model of $y= 114.43 x- 0.4512$ would result in significantly greater accelerations than expected (phys 1051l-015, group 6). since applied forces were around the same as the ones tested in this model, the only explanation that can be justified is that the program reading acceleration was systematically off or misread. 

considering the lab continuation as a whole, potential outside factors and errors could be prominent. if the string used had a non-negligible mass, the resulting acceleration would be off, if accounted for the in overall system mass or not. if the mass of string was recorded and accounted for, the initial acceleration would be slower with a greater mass is found at the top of the system, then increase in acceleration much greater as the string travels down the pulley and more mass ends up as hanging weight. if the mass of the string was not accounted for, the acceleration would change similarly as mentioned, however would not be representative of the correct change in acceleration over force. 

possible errors done based on the lab performers include improper usage of the triple beam balance, inaccuracies in measuring the fishing bobs (attachable weights) properly, and the possibility of the vacuum not shooting the system down the track. the balance was the primary modus of obtaining both the system’s mass and the masses of the individual fishing bobs, so if either the balance was off systematically, or the readers were off in their measurements, the overall system would lose accuracy in obtaining correct accelerations. these were both accounted for by taking multiple and well documented recordings, with each weight marked with a specific number to ensure mass of the system remained constant throughout the experiment. likewise, in some trials of the system, the cart would not move along the track properly or at all. while this might sound like a great amount of friction force is working on the cart, it is likely the result of improperly setting up track. this possibility was reduced by ensuring there were no breaks or knots in the string as well as running as many trials as possible and ensuring the track was fully operable. this experimental design limits the full potential of claims made. the first noted constraint in the setup was the length of the string, which limited the distance at which the cart could be placed along the track. with a longer string, the cart could travel are farther distance, thus obtaining a better stabilized acceleration value. similarly, the size of the cart was constrained by the design of the track used. for the cart to fit on the track and actually move along it well, the sides had to line up with track- if in a different design the track was more permissible to different carts, a better understanding on force and acceleration can be made possible. 