discussion/conclusion:

	based on our results from this lab we were able to refute our first hypothesis that the mass of the pendulum would affect the period of the resulting swing. we observed 5 different masses and when the results were graphed the linearity (square of the calibration curve) had no direct correlation. in our second trial we hypothesized that the length of the period of a pendulum swing would impact the length of a swing and we accepted our hypothesis when we saw a direct relationship between the two variable. in our last testable hypothesis, we predicted that the angle of release would not impact the time of a period swing. we found this to be true when we saw no direct correlation on the resulting graph. as shown in figures one through three, for each variable tested there were 5 different independent variables. when mass of the pendulum was being tested the five masses chosen were 70g, 90g, 110g, 130g, and 150g. when length was tested there were 5 different lengths chosen and the same goes for when angle of release was tested. the reason there were multiple independent variables tested during each of the trials was to maximize the impact that each variable could have on the total length of the period swing.

	the resulting graph from figure 1 shows that there was no significant correlation between mass and length of the pendulum period once the error bars were added into the graph. the same can be said about angle of release and period time as shown in figure 2. since the r2 value was small 0.0004x we can conclude that there isn’t a significant relationship in this trial. figure 3 showed us that there is a significant relationship between length of the string and time of the period. the third trial gave us and r2 value of 0.0109x which was the greatest correlation among the variables tested.  the theoretical model  was looked up and determined to be $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. the model for the power trendline closely relates. 

	this experiment was successful because we were able to create a mathematical model for the length of string verse period of a pendulum swing. we were able to accept our second and third hypothesis, however had to refute our first hypothesis do to a lack of a correlation. we showed how our results can be reproducible if carried out in future experiment and the precautions needed to ensure accurate results. random errors need to be minimized to ensure accuracy of the true value since that wasn’t predetermined. from our mathematical model we were able to conclude that the longer the length of the pendulum string, the longer the resulting swing.