Conclusion:
This experiment was broken down into two parts. The first part of the experiment was done during Lab 05 and addressed the research question How does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes? This research question was approached performing an experiment to determine the relationship between force and acceleration in which the control variables included the mass of the system which included the cart and the hanging mass (188.9g) and the distance from which the cart was release (600cm), the independent variable was the applied force (N), and the dependent variable was acceleration (m/s2). The prediction based on the hypothesis was that there would be a positive and linear relationship between force and acceleration. The hanging mass attached the system would make the system accelerate faster.  Figure 1 shows the data obtained for 8 trials of the experiment. The relationship between the force and acceleration was a positive, linear relationship with $y=17.609 x - 0.011$ and an R2 value of 0.9991. The values found in this experiment indicate that the data is very close the accepted values. These results help support the hypothesis that the hanging mass (applied force) of a system affects the acceleration of a system. The errors bars seen in Figure 1 are very small and do not overlap indicating the uncertainty of this experiment was very minimal. Figure 2 is the experimental model and data of a different lab group. This figure shows a positive, linear relationship with was $y=4.346 x - 0.169$ with an R2 value of 0.7829 which helps support the hypothesis of the experiment. However, the R2 value of this lab group was lower indicating that the data was not as close to the accepted value. Figure 3 shows the experimental design and data of the second group whose data had an R2 value of 0.9992 and a linear relationship $y=0.0042 x - 0.0221$. The results of this lab group help support the data of this experiment where change in applied force has a positive and linear relationship with acceleration. For the second part of this experiment, a theoretical and mathematical model were obtained to help support the hypothesis of the experiment. Where the slope is equal to the inverse of the mass, the x is equal to the force, and the y-intercept is equal to the force of the unknown over the mass of the system. 

Possible errors in this experiment could be the calibration of the data obtaining system or if the track in which the system moved was not completely frictionless. In calculating the force of the system, and error was made which caused the slope of the line to be off. A constraint in this experiment could be the alignment of the system on a flat surface and whether it was level or at an angle from the horizontal surface which would affect the force of the unknown and therefore affect the data collected. 
