discussion and conclusion

what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? the three experiments conducted in this lab report answers this research question. the first experiment explores how the length of the string affects the period of a pendulum. as seen in the first graph, there is a positive correlation between string length and the period of pendulum. the period increases as the length of the string increased. this means that my hypothesis was correct. the length of the string does affect the period of the pendulum. the second experiment investigates how the angle of release affect period of pendulums. as seen in the second graph, there is a positive correlation between the angle of release and the period. my hypothesis was correct. the angle of release affects the period of the pendulum. the third experiment explores the relationship between bob mass and the period. as seen in the third graph, there is a positive correlation between mass and period. the period increases as the mass increases. this proves that my hypothesis that the period of the pendulum is affected by the mass of the bob.

one random error we found in this experiment was the timing of the periods. we could have solved this error by using a stopwatch to measure the period. there was another random error by using a precise measuring device. using a precise measuring device. was in measuring the length of the string. the meter stick did not have the correct measurements. by using a precise measuring device, the numbers are a little more accurate. 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ where l is the length of the pendulum, g is 9.8 m/s, and t is the time or period of the pendulum.  there are several constraints in this experiment. air resistance affects the motion of the pendulum by slowing it down. the motion of the pendulum is dependent on the gravity. friction also affects the motion of pendulum because it affects how accurate the results are.