discussion

	the purpose of this experiment was to test a research question concerning how the force acted upon a system affects the acceleration that the system experience. students proceeded under the hypothesis that there is a relationship between the acceleration on a system and the force acting upon the system. 

the slope of this model (4.1897) came out to be relatively close to the theoretical model slope (5.288). the main difference between this slope and the slope of the mathematical model was that the one here had a positive y-intercept instead of a negative y-intercept.

theoretical equation is  $a=\frac{f}{m}$

enhanced theoretical equation is  $a =\frac{f}{m}-\frac{f_f}{m}$
any errors present in this data can be contributed to possible single sided error from the data studio running consistently higher or lower than the true values. this could be reduced by using more than one studio. another source of error comes from the fact that we did not measure each bobber individually. we weighed one at 5.0g and assumed that the rest were of the same mass. if several bobbers were noticeably off, then it would impact our results. this could be avoided if every object was measured in the experiment. also, if the string had an appreciable mass it would affect the acceleration. this is an important time to note that if the string’s mass were not neglectable, the increasing length of mass in the string would increase the force of gravity as more of the string is pulled, resulting in an increase in acceleration. however, for the purposes of this experiment the mass of the string was ignored. there are always constraints present in imperfect classroom settings.
hanging weight was the appropriate independent variable for this experiment because the hanging weight could be changed without changing the overall mass of the system. as the hanging weight increased, the force at which gravity could pull on the system could increase as well. this addressed the research question in full because trials of increasing forces could be compared easily. the claim can be made that there is a linear relationship shown on the graph between acceleration and applied force with the trend $a=4.1897 x+0.015$. the errors bars are too small to be seen, therefore we can conclude this with a high level of uncertainty. this claim is valid because newton’s second law of motion tells us that the mathematical relationship should be linear ($f=m a$). 
during part ii of this experiment, this group was able to compare their results with that of two other groups (figure 2). both groups came up with slopes similar to our own and within +/- 0.30 and supported our own mathematical model in this way. however, group 1 has a y-intercept closer to our own than that of group 2. this can possibly contributed to the different data studios used by each group and still does not refute our hypothesis. 
in the end, this group was able utilize the theoretical model and test themselves. we set out to determine the hanging mass of the system needed to result in an acceleration of 0.4 m/s. once all of the known and unknowns of the system were found, a hanging mass of 13.55g was determined to be needed to complete the task. to account for the small friction factor, we decided to go with a mass of 14.7g instead and came out with an acceleration of 0.43 m/s. success!