discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this lab was to investigate the relationship between the acceleration of a system and the force on the system due to hanging mass. this experiment addresses this question by measuring the acceleration of a system while varying the force of the hanging mass on the system. to do this, a frictionless track was set up with a cart on top connected by a string which ran over a frictionless pulley which was connected to an amount of mass. the total system included the cart, the string, and the bobs. this system would cause the hanging mass to accelerate the cart forward due to the force on the mass hanging on the string (due to gravity). the acceleration was measured using the frictionless pulley and a computer program. there was a set number of bobs, none were removed, and none were added in order to ensure the system weight was static. bobs were placed on the cart and the end of the string in varying quantities in order to test this relationship. this data can be found above in table a and in graph a. as table a and graph a clearly show, there is a positive trend between the force of the hanging mass and the acceleration of the cart. this model produces a linear trendline, with an equation of $y=0.0051 x - 0.0529$. this data accrued is accurate with an r^2 value of .9998. thus we can conclude that this experiment investigated the relationship between the acceleration of a system and the force on the system due to hanging mass.

our data were compared to two separate groups with similar models and similar resulting equations of $y=0.0045 x + 0.02$ and $y=0.0047 x-0.0811$
the results of these group’s data do not refute our own, rather they paint a different picture that includes separate factors that go into each system. for instance, they have systems of differing mass and differing friction coefficients due to being set up on different tracks, this alters their data slightly but still indicates a linear trend that follows the same theoretical model. (each theoretical model was calculated from the equation below). the differences in the equations most likely comes with how the track was set up and operated on an individual testing basis. this means that our friction coefficient and theirs are slightly different, producing altered equations. their models are included below. 
our experimental model is very similar to the theoretical model, which when calculated, comes to $y = 0.0053 x + c$ (friction being negligible in this case). this theoretical model comes from the equation $y = c1 x+c2$, where c2 is the understood friction, c1 is one over the force on the hanging mass of the system due to gravity, y is acceleration, and x is the force of the hanging mass. this is simplified into,  $a =\frac{m_h g}{m_h+m_c} + c2$, where mh is the mass of the hanging object, g is acceleration due to gravity, and mc is the cart. this theoretical model was tested and found to mimic the experimental model through the calculation of the hanging mass, when given the acceleration of the cart. this is the same formula re arranged to give the intended hanging mass $m_h =\frac{c2 m_c -m_c a_c}{a_c -g-c2}$  our values were inputted to find the intended hanging mass (mh is 15.123 g) and a test was run to give a result that varied by .011 m/s^2 from the theoretical model. (theory value is .423 m/s^2, test value is .434 m/s^2) this test proves the accuracy of our experimental model.
it is key to note that the mass of the string was negligible. a non-massless string would add weight to the hanging mass as it pulled the cart along the track. this in turn would increase the force on the string over time, leading to an increase in acceleration as the hanging mass falls.  
the theoretical model indicates a steeper slope than the experimental one. this is most likely due to several areas of error that may have occurred. the steeper slope indicates that the cart may have not reached the acceleration values that were predicted in the theoretical model. this is most likely due to the air track either being slanted, or the track itself not being a frictionless system. these are systematic errors. they could be fixed by properly aligning, and calibrating the air track. another source of systematic error could come from failure to let the track “warm up” and releasing the cart before that time. this would cause friction to occur between the cart and the track. to eliminate this systematic error, the track should be let to run for a minimum of 5 seconds prior to testing. some random error that may have occurred is from the human error of releasing the cart. this could either detract or add to the acceleration of the cart depending on the method in which it was released. this could be mitigated through the use of a mechanical switch, which lets the cart go in a way that doesn’t affect the carts acceleration. 
this lab was constrained by a limited number of weight variations (only 8 bobs on the entire system) allowed making for a total of only 9 possible tests. with more freedom in weight variation (ie less massive bobs or a higher system weight with the same mass bobs), more tests could be run and error could be mitigated. 
