discussion & conclusion:



remember that our research question here is, what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? in order to conduct this research, we set out first to predict 3 factors that believed would’ve impacted the period of the pendulum. during week 1 it was decided to test the angle of release, the length of the string, and the mass. we had to do this first in order to see if any one or more of these factors was even a candidate for impacting the period. the plans for testing are shown in figure 1. next, data points were taking at 3 different measurements of each independent variable. data tables 1-3 and figures 2-4 show the complete experimental data for week one. as each independent variable was tested, it help us reach our conclusion. 	starting with the angle of release, we saw that the data was inconclusive in the fact that it did not impact the period. we can use our graph in figure 2 to see that the first 2 data points are nearly overlapping and could very likely be the same point therefor no change in angle of release affected the period. the 3rd point was near overlapping so it can be difficult to derive if it a separate point, doing more test runs could’ve avoided this. we later found out though that angle of release is not a factor that affect pendulum. mass being our next variable was tested in the same fashion. again, we can look at the graph in figure 3 and see the total overlap of the error bars indicating the points could very likely be the same indicating no change. the last variable tested was string length. looking at the error bars in figure 4 we see that there is no overlap of the vertical error bars indicating each point is indeed its own and there was a verifiable change in the period by changing the length of the string. 

during week 2 we ran one more test run in order to calculate uncertainty in the data from week 1, this is how we obtained the correct error bars. table 4 shows the average data of each of the 9 trails, which were used in the calculation of uncertainty. this led us to a standard deviation of 0.068. after taking into consideration the error bars we added in figures 2, 3, and 4, we were able to decide that string length was the only factor that has an effect on the period of the swing. during week 3, we were able to focus in on just the independent variable being string length, since this was decided to have a significant impact on period. figure 5 shows the plan for testing the impact on string length during week 3. in order to get a more accurate value of the period at different string lengths we used a photogate which automatically detects the period. the set-up of the photogate is shown in figure 6. we were able to use this data in table 4 to create the graphs (figures 7 and 8). figure 7 shows the original linear line with an r2 of about 0.97. the goal is to find the graph with the best-fit line though, so we set off to find the one with the highest correlation. the logarithmic graph had an r2 value of 0.997 which showed significantly higher correlation, meaning that this line fits the data points more closely than the linear. the equation and mathematical model correlating to this graph is $y=0.6088 x + 0.7172$. 

	 as with any experiment, there will be some chance of error. in this experiment we derived some places where error could arise and ways that they can be deterred. random error throughout the experiment could’ve arisen when one person released the pendulum and the other started the timer because it is not guaranteed they started and released the same time every time. this could’ve been reduced by having multiple people taking the time and then doing an average.  another example of error could’ve occurred if there was any sort of push when the pendulum was released that would’ve cause a mistake in the period. i believe this is more of a being conscious thing that you aren’t moving your hand in any way, just letting go.  lastly, a random error could’ve been if the string was not pulled tight when it was released it could’ve caused it to maybe bounce, affecting the timing. this is also something you just need to be conscious of making sure the string is tight before releasing it. systematic error in this experiment could’ve been if the string was not measured properly due to a faulty measuring tape. this could’ve been check by comparing the length to a new measuring tape and comparing and making adjustments as necessary. another systematic error could’ve been that the weight was not exact. this could’ve been checked by weighing the weights on a properly zeroed scale. 

	some constraints of this experiment was the amount of weight that we had, the longest length of the string we could’ve measured, and measuring only smaller angles. if we were able to test more extreme scenarios of these factors, maybe our results would’ve been different.