discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of this experiment was to determine what factors have an affect on the period of a pendulum.  based on the data gathered, we were able to determine the only factor having an effect on the period of a pendulum is the length.  based off figure 1, this tells us the mass is not related to the period because the error bars are overlapping based on the equivalency criterion.  this shows there was really no difference between the times recorded and any changes between recorded periods was due to random error.  figure 3 tells us the same, the angle of release is not related to the period because the error bars are also overlapping based on the equivalency criterion.  however, in figure 2, we can determine the length is related to the period because we see between the points at 66 and 76 centimeters, these error bars do not overlap based on the equivalency criterion. to test this further, more accurate measurements were taken using a photogate to test the period at various lengths.  from this, looking at figure 4, it was determined that the graph of the data using the photogate is nonlinear and the equation is power fit, $y=x^{0.5}$  using the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum, we derived the experimental equation $y=c1*x^{c2}$. this was tested by inserting our dv (period) into the experimental equation and then comparing the solution to the pendulum theory equation. the length of period when calculated using the pendulum period equation at 50 centimeters was 1.42 seconds. comparing this to our measured value of 1.53s, it is within .11 seconds of the calculated value.  some random errors involved in this experiment include the stopwatch timing being inaccurate and that there were no repetitions performed in the experiments.  timing inaccuracy was improved using a photogate and more repetitions in the future could also reduce random error. some systematic error included the angle of release and measuring the length of the pendulum being done inaccurately. both of these could be improved by using more precise measuring tools. some constraints involved in this experiment include the equipment used for the pendulum.  only small swings and light weights were able to be used and when using such inaccurate equipment and techniques the data collected isn’t as precise as it could be.  another constraint is the time we were given, we had a very short time window to perform our experiments and therefore were unable to perform any repetitions in our experiments making our data very generalized.