discussion and conclusion

the question being asked throughout the first experiment was whether or not changing specific variables of a pendulum would have an effect on the time it took for the pendulum to complete one period. this meant that, on a pendulum, how long it took for the object to go all the way to its max distance, and then back. the test was built, conducted, and results were taken by students, which resulted in a lot of random error. this included incorrect/imperfect measurements and inconsistent measurements of time. after gathering and observing results, our group came to the conclusion that only one of our hypothesis were supported by the experiments. along with this, the same experiment was the only experiment to show any correlation between the variable being tested and the time to complete one period. this test was the string length test. the same question was asked on experiment two, however, the group evaluated errors, fixed them any way possible. rather than only recording three trials, the group did ten, and recorded the results. doing this allowed the group to fix some of the random error that was seen in the first test and make adjustments that were necessary to the experiments. the same results occurred for the second experiment. only one of our hypothesis were supported and the same test that was supported was the only one to show any correlation. after completing the first two experiments, the group had a good idea as to which variables had an effect on the pendulum period, and which didn’t. a third experiment was done, however, rather than a student using a stopwatch to calculate results, a photogate was used. this allowed the group to rule out almost all random error in the string versus time experiment. after conducting the result, the group made a graph of the results (see figure 3.1), and noticed that the line of best fit resembled that of a power graph. after further research, this was deemed to be correct. when increasing the length of the string, the results are similar to that of a power curve. the final experiment allowed the group to cut out a lot of error and proved that these errors can play huge roles in determining consistent and precise results.