Discussion

The purpose of this lab was to apply a mathematical model to a system to answer how changing the applied force on a system will change the acceleration of the system. The finding of the experiment show that there is a linear relationship between the applied force and the acceleration of the system. The linear relationship can be seen in Figure 1, where the slope of the resultant best fit is a constant positive value, showing there is a positive linear relationship between the two variables. The experimental mathematical model found is is  $a=5.0413$. This model further shows the linear relationship, as this is a linear equation. Because the error bars are so insignificant in this graph, it can be concluded that the data does not overlap and the conclusion of a linear relationship is valid. When comparing our results to the findings of other groups, we found data that both supports and refutes our findings. 



These findings support our claim that the relationship between the applied force and the system acceleration is a linear relationship. The graph seen in Figure 3 shows a linear graph with a corresponding linear equation.

The findings of this group refute our findings, and the resultant graph in Figure 3 shows that the relationship between applied force and acceleration of the system was a polynomic relationship, rather than a linear relationship. The experimental mathematical model additionally shows the polynomic relationship of the two variables. 

Our experimental model for the relationship between applied force and acceleration of the system is is  $a=5.0413$. The theoretical model of this relationship is . These models are comparable, the 5.0634 of our experimental model is the mass of the system as shown in the theoretical model while the -0.0221 in our experimental model is the + C of the theoretical model. An outside force that may be present in the experimental context of this experiment would be some friction, as it is extremely difficult to make a surface entirely frictionless. This outside force may be seen through the C value in the experimental model, as with a completely frictionless surface the relationship between applied force and acceleration would be perfectly linear. A non-massless string that connected the mass to the cart would change the uniform acceleration of the cart by decrease the acceleration because the mass of the system would be increased. However, the acceleration would still be a linear relationship, just with a slightly higher numeric value as only the mass of the system is changing (dividing by a larger number in the theoretical model). A systemic possible error within our experiment could have been a potential uncalibrated balance measuring the mass of system as well as mass provided to give a force, or an uncalibrated velocity sensor which could have given then a skewed acceleration value. Another potential error could have been an inconsistent air flow from the air track, which would then affect the acceleration of the system by the presence of friction. These errors could be checked for by using various balances, sensors and air tracks to ensure collected values are consistent with our findings. Because we were limited to the addition of bobbers as means of applying force to the system, we were limited in the masses that could be applied to observe the acceleration of the system. With a larger range of masses that could have been applied, ranging from nearly negligible masses to extremely high masses, we may have been able to generalize the results better and see if the relationship between applied force and acceleration truly is a linear. 