	The purpose of this experiment was to test the variables that may affect the period of a pendulum. Kate Molony and Kofi Amponsah helped contribute towards both experiments. The research question; what impacts the period of a pendulum was testable using different independent and control variables. The first experiment utilized a stopwatch but to eliminate random error a photogate was implemented to come to more precise results during the second experiment. The mass of the weight and the angle of release proved to not have a measurable effect on the pendulum. The length of the string was the only independent variable to produce consistent results for the period, dependent variable, that helped lead to the conclusion that length shows the only measurable effect.
	The experimental design involved testing what independent variable will affect the period of a pendulum, whether that would be angle, length, or mass. During the first experiment one person was dedicated to the stopwatch while another person released the weight. Each of the three variables, length, mass, and angle, were tested independently while leaving the other two variables to be the control variables. Each hypothesis and prediction is indicated under each respective graph as well as the conclusion based on the results of the graph. Other control variables; person releasing the weight and the person using the stopwatch were also held consistent throughout the experiment. The photogate was able to record the period in seconds accurately. The length of the string was used as the independent variable while the angle of release stayed at a constant 10 degrees with a 50g weight attached while using the photogate.
	Concluding experimentation, the mass as the independent variable showed to not impact period as the error bars overlap. The angle as the independent variable also proved to not impact the period as the data is inconsistent and the error bars are also overlapping. Length as the independent variable proved to influence the period as shown in both graphs using a stopwatch and photogate. Utilizing the stopwatch; the results were recorded, and the data showed that more testing was needed to come to a firm conclusion. Once the photogate was utilized that was able to eliminate possible sources of error as shown in its error bars on its respective graph.
This equation shows the relationship between the period and length and how they are measurable by plugging in known numbers to solve for each variable. This full model is backed by the theoretical data. During the first experimentation systematic error was recorded and determined to be starting/ stopping the stopwatch too early, or late, and perhaps if the stopwatch ran slow or if it had a sticky button. Random error was determined to be the reaction time of the student using the stopwatch and eyeballing the string length with a tape measurer. The photogate was able to eliminate almost all sources of error.
	