discussion

each of the eight trials, all with varying applied forces, were allowed to run down the air track and their velocities recorded into a velocity vs. time graph. from this, the acceleration of each trial was able to be determined from the slope of the equation of the line as well as uncertainties estimated by the computer program that plots the graph. when the accelerations of all the trials were plotted on the y axis and applied forces on the x axis of a graph a linear relationship can be observed with and r^2 value of 0.9662 and an equation $y=4.2973 x + 0.1012$. this linear relationship and r^2 value suggests that applied force does in fact affect acceleration of a system and in the positive correlation as predicted. error bars were added to the graph in figure 10. from the uncertainty values, but because the values were so small, they are unable to be seen in the graph itself. the theoretical model given for this experiment is $a= \frac{f_h}{m} +\frac{f_u}{m}$. this compares to the model acquired through experimentation in the sense that y is acceleration, m is mass^-1, x is f_hanging, and $b=f_{unknown} m^{-1}$. when considering the differences between the theoretical and experimentally acquired equations factors such as the force of friction may have caused differences in the two equations. friction was ignored in the theoretical model because it was assumed to be eliminated by the air blowing up on the air track. the air track minimizes the force of friction acting on the system but does not eliminate it completely, causing differences in our experimental equation compared to the theoretical. another factor that may have contributed to differences between the equations is the fact that the air track may have not been completely level and the slight incline or decline could have altered the velocity at which the cart moved down the track as opposed to the theoretical model which assumed the track was completely level. other errors that may have tampered with data collection of this experiment are the random error of not starting the cart at exactly the right point on the air track each trial, or systematic error of the uncertainty of the scale used to measure the mass of the system. when comparing experimental setup and results to another experiment team (team sato) both were strikingly similar. team sato used the same iv, dv, and cv’s used in this experiment and their data yielded the same results. team sato found a linear relationship between applied force and acceleration with a positive slope, indicating a positive correlation between the iv and dv. 

when the applied forces and accelerations of various trials of a system were graphed against each other, the data resulted in a linear line with a positive slope. at the start of the experiment it was hypothesized that the applied force of a system would affect the acceleration and predicted that this effect would be one of a positive correlation is  when applied force was increased, acceleration would increase. the data collected by this experiment leads to the conclusion that this is in fact the case. when data from this experiment was compared to that of experimental group, team sato, the results were strikingly similar with hardly any variation. this similarity of data confirms the final results. it’s safe to say that applied force does indeed affect acceleration.