discussion:

	after the experimentation was completed, the results for this lab, lab 05: newton’s laws part 1, exemplifies that in fact hanging weight affects the acceleration. the graph shown in figure one matches the prediction made for the lab where the prediction stated that the acceleration will have a linear relationship with the force. to back the evidence even further, the graphs from separate groups, shown in figure 2 and 3, also show a linear relationship between both acceleration and force. 

	our experimental equation from data collected was $y=4.53736$. the preferred model was mlg which is what the x represents. seeing that the y intercept was -0.0536 is formed in the place of the value for l/a in the preferred which represents our sum of the masses of the whole system in the experiment which is 0.1887kg. as inferred from the hypothesis, the heavier of the mass hanging, the greater the applied force which means a greater acceleration. heavier string would not have much affect on the results other than making the overall weight greater which would just mean there would need to be a larger value of ml. the larger values would result in a larger acceleration since everything as we have found out, is linearly related. thus if the string were to be lighter, there would need to be a smaller hanging mass, resulting in the applied force would be smaller and therefore the acceleration would be smaller. 

	although this experiment proved the hypothesis correct, that does not mean it went off without any errors. this lab has two possible errors as all other labs do, they are identified as systematic and random error. the systematic errors would happen with improper calibration of any instrument used in this lab. the two instruments that could be improperly calibrated would be the scale and the computer program which observed the acceleration. if the calibration was incorrect, then the data would be skewed. the random errors are ones due to human mistake, such as rounding and reading the balance improperly. in order to help eliminate the random error- students should take special care when dealing with the numbers and being consistent through the whole lab when it comes to rounding. 

	this experiment was an overall success since all data throughout the different groups in the lab which supported our hypothesis.