The purpose of this lab was to explore what factors impact the period of a pendulum’s swings. At the beginning of the first lab, three factors that could impact the period were determined is  mass, string length, and angle of release. Each factor was tested by performing three experiments, and using one of the factors as the independent variable and the other two as constants. For example, the first factor that was tested was mass, so the mass was changed while the length of the string and angle of release stayed the same. 
	When testing whether or not the mass impacted the period of the pendulum, the following masses were used is  50g, 150g, and 250g. While the string length was kept at 20 cm and the angle of release was 20. The masses used were not scaled and instead we went by the amount given on each weight, this is a source of random error. For each trial, the pendulum was released and timers were started and not stopped until after three full periods. The time was then divided by three to get an average time per period. By graphing our data in Graph 1 and adding error bars using the standard deviation calculation in Excel, it can be seen that if a horizontal line were drawn, all of the error bars are within each other. This led us to conclude that mass does not impact the period of a pendulum for small swings. 
	The second factor that was tested was string length. In the same way we tested mass, the length of the string varied (20 cm, 30 cm, 40 cm) and the mass was kept at 250g while the angle stayed at 20. The string lengths were measured using a measuring tape and random error could have occurred in reading the tape, although to try and eliminate this error, the same person measured the string each time. Using the same standard deviation from Graph 1, the graph for the mass vs. period, the data was graphed as seen in Graph 2. If a horizontal line were to be drawn on Graph 2 where the error bars are, it can be seen that the error bars would not be touching and the values are outside of this standard deviation, and therefore length of the string does impact the period of a pendulum for small swings. 
	The third factor that was tested was the angle of release. Following the same procedures as the previous experiments, the string length was kept at 40 cm, and the mass at 250g, while the angle of release varied (10, 20, 30). The angles were measured using a protractor and lining up the string with the desired angle before releasing the pendulum. Because of this type of measurement, random error is possible. Using the same standard deviation as the previous graphs, Graph 3 was made. By looking at Graph 3, it can be seen that angle of release does not impact the period of the pendulum for small swings. 
	After determining that string length is the only factor that impacts the period, Graph 4 can be used to find the theoretical equation which is $y=1.5179 x^{0.1647}$ where y represents the time in seconds, and x represents the length of the string. The mathematical equation is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ where T represents the time for one period, L represents the length of the string, and g represents the force of gravity. This equation gives similar results as the theoretical equation, which indicates that our test was done somewhat accurately. Some constraints that were faced include the string length could only be so long, the weights were limited, and the angle of release could only realistically be used up to 90. Regardless of these constraints, our research question of “What impacts the pendulum period for small swings?” can still be answered. String length is the only factor that impacts the time it takes for a pendulum to complete one period.