discussion and conclusion:



	for this lab, we wanted to test what factor (mass, length of string, or angle of release) would affect the period of pendulum. our goal was to find out if all three factors affect the period of pendulum, none of the factors affect the period of pendulum, or if just one factor affected the period of pendulum.  from this experiment were able to conclude that the factor that most affected the period of the pendulum was the length of the string holding the pendulum.

	when we tested the factor of mass affecting the period of pendulum there was no correlation in the graph, it was very hard to draw a straight line through the plotted points. (fig. 1)  the error bars on the mass versus time graph shows that we had a somewhat precise set of data, if we were able to do more trials we would have had even smaller error bars. when we tested the angle of release to see if it has an affect on the period of pendulum, it as well didn’t show in correlation or trend provided from our data. when we plotted these points, again we saw that we could not draw a straight line between the plotted points. (fig. 3) the error bars for the angle versus time graph, we had a pretty small range of error. this factor had the “largest” error range but if we had a better way to test the angle i think the data would of changed a little bit.  lastly, when we tested the length of pendulum to see if it had affected the period of pendulum, we noticed that the time it took the pendulum to swing a full swing was decreases as we decreased the length of the string. after our five trials we then created a graph in which we could draw a fairly straight line through, showing that there was some type of correlation and some type of trend. (fig. 2) our error bars for the length versus time graph it shows that we have a very small range of error. this means that our numbers were pretty precise.  if we could do more trials, like stated above, we would have had an even smaller error range. in conclusion, the length of the string affected the period of pendulum the most. the independent and dependent variable of this factor showed correlation, however; the independent and dependent variables of both the mass of the pendulum and the angle of release show no correlation or trend. 

	the theoretical model was found online and used as a reference. the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is referenced in figure 4. (fig. 4) the data that was collected from this experiment related to this model because the numbers were similar but were off by a decimal place, or tenth so i can conclude that this may be due to a unit error, meaning that we used centimeters and they could of used inches or a different unit of length. (fig. 2) (table 7) the curve fitting of the theoretical mathematical model is a straight line, which is exactly what our graph was for the length of the string versus the time it took to swing a whole swing. (fig. 2)  even though the measurements of length are not exactly the same we can conclude based on the information given that length is the best factor to determine the period of pendulum because it was shows a correlation between the theoretical model as well as the data that we received. for the factors that did not affect the period of the pendulum, (mass, angle of release) i can conclude that these are not apart of the theoretical model because there is no variable to show that mass or the angle were used. the only factor that was given to use in their theoretical mathematical equation was length. therefore, it would be hard to solve either one of these factors if they are not in the theoretical mathematical equation. 

it’s nearly impossible to be able to get through a whole experiment without any systematic or random errors occurring. a systematic error is something that may have been involved in the equipment that was provided. some systematic errors that may have been involved in our experiment are having a piece of string that is very wore out and stretched, not having an accurate stop watch, or even the tape measure being old, worn out or maybe the numbers were rubbed off so it was hard to read accurate numbers. what can be done to reduce these errors is making sure everything is new or in new condition before starting the experiment. make sure all the equipment is readable and has accurate readings

	random errors are another possible type of error that can occur during the experiment. these types of errors can occur when there are fluctuations in the measurements due to the equipment. some random errors that could of occurred in our experiment are the stop watch being off, which causes the time to fluctuate, and another random error would be the protractor and making sure its set up flush with the stand and help very still to be read accurately. it was hard to keep still and flush with the stand while my lab partners lined the string at a 45° angle. what could be done in the future to make sure that these types of errors are reduced is to do as many trials as you can and take the average of all trials. it helps reduce the error of these random errors. 

	i think there was a constraint that limited the generalizability of our results. the main constraint was that we only have a few small amount of time to be able to conduct this experiment. everything was very rushed, and many didn’t have enough time to finish their experiments. if we had more time some of us would have been able to do 10 maybe 15 trials rather than the 5 that we did. if we were able to do at least 10 trails with using the photogate we would of have very accurate results. 




