discussion and conclusion

for this experiment, the variables of length, angle, and mass were investigated on whether they affected the period of a pendulum.  these experiments allowed for a conclusion to be drawn depending on the variable.  length for example has shown that it affects the time of the pendulum as shown in graph 1 and graph 5 where there is a positive correlation between the amount of time needed with the size of the string.  mass has little to no affect as any change within the graph 2 is within the measure of error, and therefore cannot have any conclusion drawn to support the hypothesis.  the same can be said for angle in correlation to period since there is no change in graph 3 as well.  according to these experiments, only length of the pendulum can claim to affect the period of the pendulum.

the theoretical mathematical model followed in this experiment was .  for the two variables (mass and angle), that did not show any type of curve to curve fit to this equation which can be seen in graph 2, and graph 3 respectively.  as for graph 1 for the variable of length, it can be seen slightly, but has to be build upon greater to have a better cure for this variable as in graph 4.  this data however does not still fit with the model since the model comes out like this, $y=0.5 x^{0.2}$ and this experiment’s mathematical model was $y=0.4756 x^{0.272}$ which is a difference.

while there was much care put into avoiding errors, there was still several that happened.  systematic errors for this experiment were the imprecise mass markings on the pendulum’s weights, but to reduce this, a scale was used to double check the mass.  as for random errors, there is the improper timing, which may be stopped by being more careful, and not using the correct angle to drop which can be fixed by simply double checking.

constraints on this experiment was time.  the general statements and figures of this experiment could have been improved by repeating each variable several more times to get a more precise results for each of the experiment.  as well as with more time, there is the fact that rushing through an experiment will just lead to more errors.