discussion and conclusion



	in lab 1, the research question was, “what impacts the period of a pendulum?” in test 1, we wanted to find out how the angle of release impacts the period. to collect this data, the weight with a mass of 50 grams was tied to the end of the string. the string was tied to the top of the pole. the string was then measured to be 34 centimeters. a protractor was then used to calculate the angle at which the string was to be released. once the string was released, a stopwatch was started, and, once the weight swung away from its starting point and returned, the stopwatch was stopped. the time this took was the recorded as the period. these methods were repeated for all remaining tests, with variation in length of the string and mass of the weight. uncertainties are mostly due to human error. these uncertainties include the visual estimates of the protractor and tape measurer, as well as the error that is inherent in using a stopwatch. more thorough investigation of the length of the string and the angle of the protractor could reduce some of the error. i believe that most of the error comes from the stopwatch. to reduce this error, there must be effective communication between the person holding the weight and the person using the stopwatch. the person holding the weight should give the person with the stopwatch a countdown until they release the weight. this helps the person with the stopwatch adequately prepare to start the timer. it also increases the chance that the weight is let go at the same time that the stopwatch begins timing. these uncertainties are consistent throughout all tests in labs 1 and 2.

	in lab 1 test 1, we tested the impact of the angle of release on the period. the error bars are very large. at the middle point, the trendline does not fir in the error bar, which indicates that there is no significant relation between the two variables. so, although there seems to be a correlation between angle of release and period at first, further analysis allows us to reject our hypothesis and our prediction. 

	in lab 1 test 2, we tested the impact of the length of the string on the period. the trendline in figure 2 passes directly through each error bar. this shows a clear correlation between length of string and period. although there was some human error that most likely occurred during the recording of the time, there seems to be a strong enough relationship to confirm our hypothesis and our prediction.

	in lab 1 test 3, we tested the impact of the mass of the weight on the period. the error bars are of moderate-large size. the trendline in figure 3 comes very close to being outside the error bar on the point at 70 grams. this figure seems to show a correlation between mass and period. this would mean that the hypothesis and prediction can be accepted. however, the masses may not be far enough apart to acquire reliable data. so, this figure could show a relationship by sheer chance. 

	table 4 displays the data collected from lab 2 test 1, where the purpose was to find the standard deviation of a large data set with mass, length, and angle all being control variables. this is so that we could mathematically model the amount of error in the methods of the experiment. the standard deviation was found by using the “data analysis toolpak” in microsoft excel. if this tool is not available, standard deviation can be found by finding the mean of the numbers, subtract the mean from each number individually and square each result, find the mean of those results, and then taking the square root of that mean.

	table 5 shows the data collected in lab 3 using a photogate, which is a computer with sensors that is able to eliminate human error from measuring the period of the pendulum. we used length of string as the independent variable because we found that that had the strongest and most statistically proven relationship on the period of the pendulum. figure 4 represents the relationship between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum. clearly, as the string gets longer, so does the period. minimizing error by using the photogate allowed us to see a the nature of their relationship (the system used to collect this data is photographed and labeled in figure 5). it is a non-linear, power relationship, following the theoretical equation of $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. as shown on the figure, our data has a trendline that can be represented by the equation $y=2.0842 x^{0.4466}$. we can use this calculated mathematical model to predict the period with any given length of string in meters. for example, say the string is 0.5 meters long. this length can be plugged into the x of the mathematical model to solve for the period. the period, in this case, would be 1.41 seconds. 

	the largest and most influential constraint on this experiment was time. if we had more time, we could have collected more data, giving us a larger sample size to draw from. a larger sample size would have meant more apparent results, so that it wouldn’t be so difficult to determine if there is or is not an impact on the period by the independent variable. we were also constrained by the height of the pole o which we tied the string. if we could get greater variance in length of string, we could have seen a more apparent impact on the period.