discussion and conclusion

our main goal was to answer the question of, “what impacts the period of a pendulum?” we looked at three different independent variables is  mass of bob, angle of swing, and length of string. there appeared to be no pattern or relationship between the mass of the bob and the period. the overlap of error bars further confirmed this. there was some evidence of a moderately strong linear relationship between angle and period. however, this was denied with the addition of error bars as they show a convincing overlap. in week one of lab, length appeared to have a very strong positive linear relationship with the period of a pendulum. this was further confirmed with no overlap in the error bars. at this point we concluded that length would be chosen as the iv for week three. from this first experiment there were random and systematic errors. random errors included discrepancies in the start and stop time of stopwatches between different people, and inaccurate/sloppy measurements in the angle and length of string. the systematic errors included weights not weighing exactly as labeled, and stopwatch buttons sticking/lagging. random errors can be remedied with more trials and more precise measurements, while systematic errors can be remedied with better equipment. following in week three, we tested the length of the string as a variable again but this time with a photogate to collect more accurate and precise measurements. after using the photogate, there continued to be a very strong positive relationship between length and period. we then used a best fit line and r-value to determine that the relationship was linear. the mathematical model we came up with was $y=b + m x$. with some research, the theoretical model is found to be $y=b + m \sqrt{x}$. the limited ranged of length of string that could be used in this environment was not necessarily a constraint, however a larger range, with more data points, may allow for the fit of the correct mathematical model.