discussion and conclusion 

the purpose of lab 5 was to find how the acceleration of the system changes when the applied force (number of bobs) changes. we found this relationship by changing the number of bobs on the cart (the downward force). in lab 6 the purpose was to find the mass of system given a certain acceleration. 

from our data, we concluded the more bobs on the cart, caused the acceleration to increase. showing a power relationship. from the graph, you can see our data is different from many other groups, there is a slight curve. the curve begins from trail 5 to 6, and the curve continues onto trials 7 and 8. this curve is from a slight increase of accelerations, as other groups had a more constant increase of acceleration from trials 5 to 8. the two mathematical models we concluded from the experiments were a theoretical and experimental model.

these models show the relationships between applied force and the acceleration of the system. the theoretical model does not take into account friction and air resistance of the track. if these two forces were taken into account in our model, then the acceleration may have shown a more precise result. the graph and models relate to each other. the graph and the models show as the mass of the applied force increases so does the acceleration of the system.
this data is from group 2 section 017, and it refutes our data. their graph shows a constant linear relationship throughout all the trials. our data is power relationship because at trial 6, a curve begins. their findings show as the applied force changes so does the acceleration of the system at a constant rate. 

these findings are from group 2 in sec 015, and it is similar to our data. their data shows there is a power relationship between the mass of the applied force, and the acceleration of the system. the graph shows a slight curve, similar to our groups findings. it is similar because both of our systems acceleration does not increase at a constant rate. 

the theoretical and experimental models both take into account the mass of the system. the theoretical model incorporates gravity. while, the experimental model incorporates the constant c, which is the friction and air resistance. 

other than the hanging weight, the small amount of friction and air resistance show up in the experiment context. these two forces are shown in the experimental model as the constant “c.” 

the mass of the system shows up in both of the models in the denominators. in the theoretical model, it is shown as m1+m2. then in the experimental model is represented at m(system).
the non-massless string that connects the mass to cart, created a little amount of friction. this little amount of friction does have an effect on the uniform acceleration of the cart. this is due to the friction putting a small amount of resistance on the cart.  
during our experiment, we dealt with random and systemic errors. a random error we encountered during our experiment was with the datastudio. during trial 3 we had to repeat one our three trials because there was a mess up in the acceleration. a possible systemic error was our group turned on the air track and automatically let go. this could account for our power relationship. while other groups pulled their cart back 1m, turned the air track on, waited a few seconds then released their cart. another possible systemic was using the triple balance incorrectly could be a systemic error. our cart mass was an outlier to the other groups in our lab. using the air track, was another systemic error we encountered. we felt that our air in the track was extremely powerful than other groups. this could have affected the acceleration of our system. 
possible constraints that may limit the generalizability of our results, is the curve towards the end our graph. our relationship shown is a power relationship, while most other groups showed a linear relationship. our data differs from the other groups. as being one of the few groups that had a power relationship, that could affect the generalizability.