discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of this experiment was to test if the string length, mass, and angle of release affected the period of time for the pendulum to swing. after testing all three in the first 2 experiments we saw there string length was the only factor with a relationship to the time period. this can be seen in figures 1 and 2 when we performed the string length vs. period time of the pendulum experiment, these graphs show that as the string length increased the period of time also increased. when looking at figure 4 for the mass vs. the time period of the pendulum we found that the graph showed that there was no relationship between the two. for the angle of release vs. time period, you can see that in figure four there also appears to not be a clear relationship between the two. 



the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is . when the mass on the pendulum is let go at the angle of 10 degrees with a change in string length. the pendulum will swing freely at a steady rate, which is why the theoretical model for the pendulum would get a time period that is the same. when looking at figure 5 you can see the graph has error bars of 0.001 and it also has a non-linear line going through the data points which is .  since our data did not have a linear relationship we found that it had a power relationship and we saw this by comparing the  values and seeing which of them was the best fit (closer to one), our  was 0.9991 which is really close to one. even though mass and angle of release did not show an impact on the period of the pendulum, they are still seen in our equation that is used for the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum swing. 

	

	the errors that we saw present in our first and second experiment for systematic errors were having an inaccurate response with the timer, the buttons being hard to press on the timer (late reaction and inaccurate time), and the tape measure being inaccurate from constantly being used. the way we would reduce these systematic errors in the future is by checking to make sure the timer works properly and isn’t hard to press the buttons, conducting multiple trials in case reaction response on the timer is happening, and checking the tape measurer with another one to make sure they measure accurately. the random errors that were present or could have been present when performing the experiment were moving the protractor before letting go of the string resulting in a wrong angle of release, different people measuring time/string lengths, string is measured incorrectly, and the string is accidently pulled down resulting in a longer length than what we wanted. what we could do in the future to avoid these random errors by having multiple trials, having the same people measure the same thing, and remeasuring the string and weight before each trial.



	some constraints within the experiment that may limit the generalizability of our results is not being able to conduct a vast number of trials to make sure that our results and averages are more accurate. another constraint would be not to have the pendulum have a very long string length to measure the time period of it compared to what we were able to measure (not having a bigger pendulum). another constraint is not being able to have the pendulum swing at a constant rate like how it is supposed to be for the theoretical mathematical model equation because of air resistance slowing it down.