discussion/ conclusion:

in the experiment, the research question tested was: how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force due to the hanging mass changes? the testable hypothesis is that the acceleration is related to the force applied due to the hanging mass. the dependent variable is the change in acceleration while the independent variable is the amount of applied force due to the hanging mass. controls include the gold cart (145g) and the string length attached to the gold cart (115.5cm). the hanging weight addressed the research question as the weight was increased and decreased applying various forces on the gold cart. this in turn had a positive linear correlation between the applied force of the hanging weight and the change in acceleration of the gold cart. the mathematical model found is 0.0038f + 0.0717 m/s^2 from grams. however, a mathematical model using kilograms was not found. the effect of friction and air resistance is reflected in the model by the 0.0717. this can be seen on figure 1., however, error bars were added to show error but are too small to be seen. this small number indicates low error. this positive linear relationship makes sense because we previously learned that there is a linear relationship between mass, acceleration and force, so if one of the variables changes the others will change in order to maintain the linear relationship. the high r^2 value shows the closeness to a perfect linear line. since it very close to 1 it tells us that the data is precise and accurate, allowing us to conclude that the data set has a true positive linear correlation. the calculation of required hanging mass for targeted ta is shown below is 


the calculated force necessary to obtain assigned acceleration is 117.97 n. the calculated required hanging mass needed is 16.61g. the objects used to obtain this mass are three bobbers, three silver paper clips, and one jumbo paper clip. the actual acceleration when tested was 0.488 m/s^2 (+/- 6.5e-4; given in datastudio found on the lab computers). this value was close to our assigned acceleration, 0.52 m/s^2. this would not be exact due to friction and air resistance. this is within the +/- .100m/s^2, therefore, the test did not have to be conducted again. in another group, a mathematical model 4.86x+0.0106 m/s^2 was found. this differs from our data because this data was tested in grams while theirs was tested in kilograms. this an error in our data because it will change the data set dramatically. however, the hypothesis, variables and possible error were the same. in a second group, the mathematical model found is 4.873x - .0077 m/s^2. this group’s set closely aligns with the previous groups data because they both used kilograms in their data rather than grams. the hypothesis, variables, and errors were the same as accounted for previously. the mathematical models from the three groups can be compared to the theoretical model for the acceleration of a single force which is found the experimental model mass in the equation $f=m a$ to figure out the force. the groups experimental models support this model because every group found there is a positive linear correlation between the acceleration and the applied force due to the hanging mass. the equation $f=m a$ was used in all groups to figure this out. in the found model it gives a small error number (y intercept) but this is normal because there is no way to rule out all error in this experiment.  the enhanced theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by more than one force is $a=m x+b$ found in excel after graphing the data set where b is the error in the experiment that gives the correct acceleration due to factors such as friction and air resistance. the groups experimental models support this model because all groups had similar equations despite the mix up in units. all groups had error, however, it was a small number showing that there was small error in the experiment. a heavy string connecting the hanging weight with the cart would add extra unknown weight to the applied force. this could skew the data if not accounted for. a heavier string would create a larger applied force creating a faster acceleration. systematic error includes an uncalibrated balance that could impact the results because an incorrect force would be calculated and the rotary motion detector if it was broken or uncalibrated. this would result in the incorrect accelerations being recorded. random errors of this experiment include human error in measuring the weight of the hanging mass, an uncalibrated balance, multiple people taking measurements instead of one person, not using significant figures correctly or taking multiple measurements and averaging them, etc. these errors can be reduced by carefully planning the execution of the lab before it is started and accounting for all possible error and how to avoid this. make sure that only one person is taking all the measurements, make sure the balance is calibrated, use significant figures, etc. although, many random errors can be reduced, human error is always an error that lingers. constraints on the experiment was mass of the hanging weight which was the weight of the bobbers that could not be changed, therefore, the applied force. this could affect the results because there are only preset hanging masses to which the acceleration will only be found for these masses. any mass in between the mass of the hanging weight will need to be found through the calculation of the positive linear model of a line graph and substituted in to find the acceleration that is associated with that mass of the hanging weight. this could cause error in other data points. although the data would be affected, it may never be known because the uniform mass will still conduct a positive linear graph since it is consistent in all trials. also, there are only so many bobbers that if a larger mass due hanging mass was needed to find a certain acceleration, extrapolation of the mathematical model would need to be done which could also cause unknown error in the data set. this experiment was not performed in a vacuum, so air resistance can affect the acceleration. also, the friction varies with different surfaces, so this can also impact the overall acceleration of the system. both of these forces would be considered as constraints for the experimental model that do not exist in the theoretical model, $f=m a$.