discussion / conclusion

	the research question investigated in this lab was how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes? the question was whether force and acceleration would have a linear relationship or not. through further investigation in lab 05, it was discovered that force and acceleration did indeed have a linear relationship, as depicted in figure 2. in other words, as force increased, acceleration increased as well and vice versa. this relationship can also be referenced in table 1.  

	the error bars in figure 1. are unable to be seen because they are very small. thus, a constant scale error of 0.001 was used, which ensured that the data would not overlap. had this scale error not been used, the relationship between force and acceleration would not have been as clear. 

figure 2. and figure 3. depictions of various group data obtained through experimentation to discover the relationship between force and acceleration. figure 2. is data from the second group that presented, and figure 3. is data from the fifth group that presented. 

looking at the mathematical models obtained for groups two and five (figure 2. and figure 3.), it seems that these groups obtained similar results from their experiments to that of ours. thus, we all can conclude that there is a linear relationship between force and acceleration. although our three equations look very different from one another, they each form a linear graph, as hypothesized and predicted by all three of our groups. group two’s slope obtained is closer to that of our slope because we both used kilograms. group five’s slope is much smaller compared to my group and group two’s because they used grams as their unit of measure. furthermore, we all used a uniform mass throughout experimentation as a control variable and obtained the same error value of 0.001 as well. this information as a sum allows the conclusion that there is indeed a linear relationship, with three separate experiments backing up this analysis. 

the mathematical model obtained by my group was $y=4.3797 x + 0.002$ in the form of $y=m x+b$ which is the standard linear model. if this equation were rearranged in terms of x, applied force, it would look like $x=\frac{y}{4.3797} +0.002$, in the form of $x=\frac{y}{m} +c$ which is the theoretical model. from this, it is known that the mass is 4.3797. a massless string linking the hanging mass to the cart would not impact uniform acceleration of the cart. but a non-massless string would add to applied force and cause acceleration to increase. additionally, an r2 value of 0.99372 was figured. this is near the desired r2 value of 1, thus not much error is present.

although little error is present, both systematic and random error were present at times during experimentation. an example of systematic error present was improper calibration of the triple beam balance used to find the mass of the bobbers and the system when setting up the experiment. this error was reduced through vigilant and proper calibration of the balance. this error could also be reduced in future experimentation through utilization of a digital scale. this would allow for more accurate readings and thus, more consistent and reliable results. another systematic error present could have been improper calibration of the air track, causing skewed and inaccurate readings from data studio. this error could be reduced in future experimentation through careful and proper calibration of the track prior to investigation. to continue, an example of random error present was operator error – inconsistent start point of the system on the track. this could have skewed the data collect via data studio, giving inaccurate results. this error could be reduced in the future by measuring where the system is placed on the track and keeping it consistent for each trial. 

a constraint in this investigation that may limit the generalizability of the results is not having a longer track. this would have enabled the collection of a broader range of data, which would then have allowed for a more accurate conclusion to the research question in asking for this experiment. not having more bobbles to work with was a constraint as well because again, a larger range of data could have been gathered. although the same conclusion would outcome with or without these constraints, more data would make the results obtained more sound.