discussion and conclusion

	the overall purpose of lab 05 and 06 was to determine the how the acceleration of a system changes when the applied force changes. the system included the cart and the mass hanging off the pulley. the applied force that is changing, the independent variable, is the mass of the hanging object, which comes from adding more bobs to the string. as more bobs are added to the end of the string hanging off the pulley, the force is increased, and the acceleration is increased as well. the resulting mathematical model is $a=4.873 f - 0.0077$. a is the acceleration of the system and f is the force. 4.873 is the slope of the resulting graph of the system and -0.0077 is the y-intercept. the negative value of the y-intercept shows that there is another force acting on the system. this other force could come from friction on the track, air resistance, as well as a tilt of the track away from the pulley. 

the findings of the group with the red writing are corroborate with our findings as they have a linear relationship between acceleration and force as well. their mathematical model of  $a=5.25 f$ is similar to ours, however they have a positive y-intercept. the findings of the group with the blue writing also corroborate with ours, because they also have a linear relationship between acceleration and force. the mathematical model of $a=4.86 f + 0.01$ found by them has a positive y-intercept like the group with the red writing. these stood out to me because they have a larger slope of their graph like ours. a couple other groups in the class had found much smaller slopes than the slopes that were found by us.

	the experimental model of $a=4.873 f - 0.0077$ is slightly different than the theoretical model of $f = m a$. outside forces that may be present in experimental model are friction, air resistance, and a tilt away from the pulley. if these are the outside forces acting, it appears as the negative y-intercept in the equation. the mass of the system is used when the force is calculated to be used in figure 1. this is calculated by multiplying the number of bobbers on the hanging mass by the mass of one bobber by gravity. 

	if a non-massless string was used to connect the hanging mass to the cart, there would still be uniform acceleration of the cart on the track. the weight of the string would be staying constant throughout the experiment, so there would be no deviation from a uniform acceleration. systematic errors could include the balance not being properly calibrated to where the masses that were measured were incorrect. another systematic error could be that there is friction on the track that was slowing the acceleration of the cart. random error could include a slight push or pull of the cart right before releasing. a constraint of this lab that could limit the generalizability of the results is the track. the track needed to be perfectly set up to where there was no tilt, and there should be less friction. it was also not possible to tell whether the air flow was constant throughout the experiment. there could also be a constraint with a person letting the cart run. there could be a slight, unintentional push or pull that could skew results. it may be better to have something mechanic release the cart.