discussion and conclusion 
	the purpose of this lab was to investigate how the acceleration of a system is altered when the applied force changes. the dependent variable in this lab was the acceleration of the system (m/s2) and the independent variable was the force due to the hanging mass (n). the control variables were the weight of the system (composed of the mass of the cart and the hanging objects) which was 0.1487 kg, the starting point of the cart from the pulley which was 0.66 m, and the hanging objects, which were about 0.005 kg each. the hypothesis made indicated that the acceleration of the system was to be affected by the force applied by the hanging mass. 

	our prediction was that the greater the hanging mass of the objects, then the greater the force applied, which would lead to a greater acceleration. this can be shown by “figure 1 is  graph of acceleration of system vs. the force of the hanging mass.” this graph displays a linear relationship, which indicates that when the hanging mass increases, the force increases, as does the acceleration. the equation determined was given in the $y = m x + b$ form as $y = 0.3123 x + 0.2789$. the r2 value of 0.9374 is relatively close to 1.00, meaning that the line of best fit fits the data well. the equation in the form of $y = m x + b$ gave the experimental model, with y being the acceleration (m/s2), m is 1/mass, x is equal to the force (n), and b is equal to the friction. in this equation, the first number of 0.3123 is equal to 1/mass, while the second number of 0.2789 is the force of friction. the theoretical equation would be newton’s second law where $f = m a_{system}$. the experimental and theoretical models to agree, however, friction in the theoretical model is not present because friction is negligible. 

	the two other groups in our lab section, whose experimental data is shown in the pictures above, also obtained similar results to us. in picture 1, group 2 also hypothesized that the acceleration of the system is directly affected by the applied force. they used similar control variables within their experiment, and determined that the mathematical model addressed by this research question was in the form of $y = m x + b$. this group also concluded that friction was an environmental factor that could potentially cause error because no surface is truly frictionless. in picture 2, group 3 also agreed with us that if the force applied to the system increases, then the acceleration will also increase. group 3 also stated that the mass of the system was a control variable, but did not state that the mass of the bobbers or the starting point of the cart from the pulley were control variables. these are important control variables because they should be recorded so that the correlation between the independent and dependent variables are not skewed. importantly, this group did identify that friction and air resistance were environmental factors that were not accounted for within this experiment, which is why the experimental model obtained differed slightly from the theoretical model of $f = m a_{system}$. 

	as stated above, the theoretical model for this experimental was newton’s second law where $f = m a_{system}$. the experimental model obtained within week 1 of the experiment was given in the form of $y = m x + b$ where y equaled the acceleration (m/s2), m is 1/ mass (kg), x is equal to the force (n), and b is equal to the friction. in week 2, this equation was taken further and enhanced more specifically in terms of the acceleration and forces. the model used for this part of the experiment was 



$a = \frac{m_h g}{m_h + m_c} + c2$



where a is the acceleration, mh is the hanging mass, g is gravity, mc is the mass of the cart, and c2 is a constant, which is friction.   this equation was manipulated and rearranged to yield 



$m_h = \frac{c2 m_c – m_c a}{a-g-c2}$

 substituting numbers into this equation, we could obtain the equation 


 mh is 0.0097 kg or 9.7 g 


the experimental model matches the theoretical model but is just rearranged. if a non-massless string was connecting the hanging mass to the cart, the cart would still have a uniform acceleration because the mass of the system would remain constant. however, it would now include the mass of the string. 

	both systematic and random errors were present within this two-week experiment. systematic errors are “one-sided errors” and arise from errors in the measuring device, giving measurements that can be higher or lower than the true value. in weeks 1 and 2, a systematic error would be that the scale could not have been calibrated correctly. this would have made measuring the mass of the cart or the system incorrect, and this would have affected the values of the acceleration in both weeks. this could be remedied by acquiring a new scale, and comparing values to determine any discrepancies. another systematic error in both weeks 1 and 2 could have been the slide and the pulley. the track could have had a divot in it that would make the cart not slide smoothly, thus changing the acceleration and values obtained. this error could also be resolved by using a new track for the cart to slide on, and comparing the original values with the new values obtained to view any discrepancies. the last source of systematic error could have been the individual weights of the bobbers. the bobbers were supposed to have a mass of about 0.005 kg each. the masses might not have been exactly 0.005 kg in each experiment performed, so the varying masses would have cause the acceleration of the system to vary. random errors are “two-sided,” and arise from the experimental technique that is being used. in our experiment, a source of random error would have been not placing the cart at the desired location from the pulley each time. another random error would be approximating the masses of the cart and bobbers when using the scale. unlike systematic errors, random errors can be reduced by taking the average of the measurements or repeating more trials. to improve this lab in the future, using more accurate measuring devices and repeating more trials would eliminate potential sources of error. 	

	two sources of error occurred within our own experiment. the first one can be noted in the “figure 1 is  graph of acceleration of system vs. force of the hanging mass.” the first two data points are like one another, and there is a large gap between the second and third data point. this could have been due to either systematic or random error, and could have been remedied by repeating the trials. in the second week of this lab, an acceleration of 0.6 m/s2 was given, and the force of the hanging mass was to be determined. after the calculations above were made, the hanging mass was calculated to be 0.0097 kg or 9.7 g. after running a couple of trials, the acceleration of 0.6 m/s2 was not obtained even as the calculations obtained were correct using the model. it was determined that the smaller cart was used rather than the larger cart provided, and that was the biggest source of error as to why the acceleration was not obtained. if time permitted, this experiment could have been done again so that the correct cart was used and the acceleration would have been obtained.  

	 multiple constraints could have limited the generalizability of the results obtained. first off, random errors like the ones previously mentioned could have limited the generalizability of the results. also, performing more trials would have given more accurate measurements and more confidence in stating the results that were obtained. the error that was made in the second week of lab also limited the generalizability of the results. since the acceleration was not obtained based off the calculated hanging mass, the lab was not carried out as expected. for future labs, however, more trials should be run to reduce the amount of errors made, labs should be carried out with more detail, and more precise measuring systems could also help reduce any systematic error present. 
