discussion and conclusion:



in these labs, labs 1-3, we investigated what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings. we tested 3 independent variables is  mass, length of string, and angle release. throughout the 3 labs we found out that the only independent variable that has an impact on the period of a pendulum for small swings is the length of string of the pendulum. in data table 1 you can see by how little the period of the pendulum changes. all the trial times are within milliseconds of eachother. this small change in the time can attributed to both systematic and random errors. anything from the margin of error of the machine we were using to time to the periods, to human error of not pressing start or stop on time could have caused these small changes in times. if you look at graph 1 in figure 1 you can also see that there is no relationship between the mass of the pendulum and the period of the pendulum swing. even though the mass goes up by a certain amount each trial the period of the pendulum swing goes up and down in a very random pattern. by looking at both data table 1 and graph 1 you can conclude that mass has no effect on the period of the pendulum swing. so our hypothesis for mass was wrong.

 if you look at data table 2 you can see that the period of the pendulum swing goes up by a significant amount each trial. the longer the string the longer the period of the pendulum swing. looking at graph 2 in figure 2 you can see a clear relationship between length of string and the period of the pendulum swing. when the length of the string gets longer, so does the period of the pendulum swing. so our hypothesis was right and the shorter the length of string the shorter the period of the pendulum swing.

looking at data table 3 you can see that the period of the swings goes up by an insignificant amount each trial, only going up milliseconds each time. this could be a result of a systematic or  a random error. however, if you look at graph 3 in figure 3 you can see that there appears to be a relationship between angle of release and period of the pendulum swing. by looking at both data table 3 and figure 3 you can conclude that angle release does not have an affect on the period of a pendulum for small swings, but might have an affect on on the period of a pendulum for large swings. so our hypothesis was wrong because the angle of release does not affect the period of a pendulum for small swings.

some random errors that were present in the experiments were human error. this includes not letting go of the pendulum and starting the time at the exact time or vice versa and not stopping the time at the exact time the period is over. we fixed this error by counting down so that the person taking the time, and the person letting go of the string were in sync. another way to fix this error is to take multiple runs of the same trial and using the average. some systematic errors was not having equipment that was precise enough which could be fixed  by getting more precise equipment.

some constraints that might affect the conclusion of the lab is the physical set up of the experiment. since the pendulum was so small we could only test small angle release, and only up to a certain length of string. this lead to generalization that angle of release does not have an affect on the period of a pendulum swing. the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is  $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. our data was very close to theoretical model but was  not exactly the same. the equation we got was  .