conclusion 

the purpose of this lab was to find how the acceleration of a system changes when an applied force changes. the experimental mathematical model (derived from figure 1) was, $y=3.8893 x + 0.0258$ where y is acceleration and x is the applied force. the mass of the bobbers is represented by the applied force on the system, or m*g.there is a correlation coefficient of 0.9675. the y-intercept (0.0258) which represents a constant shift due to systematic errors. this error can be attributed to another form of force that was not taken into consideration. since mass is fixed and $a=\frac{f}{m}$ is known, the data shows a linear function that does not pass through the origin, as it should. given the theoretical model, $a=5.4259 f$, when mass is fixed at 0.1843 kg, there is a deviation between the experimental model and theoretical model. this could be due to air resistance on the system, or the friction of the string on the pulley. another possible deviation could be that the air track was not level during the experiment, the distance of the system was not kept constant when performing the experiment, or the pulley itself has mass. all of these errors contribute to the error in the experiment and the data in table 1/ figure 1. these errors show up as the y-intercept and uncertainties in the table. these errors can be reduced by taking care when doing the experiment, making sure every trial is performed in the same manner, and by reducing friction from the air track and string (possibly by using another form of track/environment). according to the data, it was determined that as the hanging mass on the system increases (applied force), the acceleration of the system also increases, in a linear fashion. these results are consistent with the mathematical model, in figure 1.

the data collected in this experiment follow similar experiments done by group garak and group odo. these experiments also showed linear experimental mathematical models which are consistent with the claim in this experiment. these groups also found a constant systematic error in their models. a non-massless string connecting the hanging mass to the cart would increase the mass of the system, thus the system would have a greater mass; a greater mass will increase the applied force and acceleration. the greatest constraint in this experiment that could limit the generalizability of the experiment is the air track in an open room. if this experiment were done in a way that completely removed air resistance and the friction, the data collected could be significantly more accurate. 
