discussion and conclusion
the purpose of this lab was to test the impact of an applied force on the acceleration of the system by controlling the mass of the system and distance the system must travel. this lab answered the question, how does the acceleration of a system change the applied force changes? then, the mathematical model, determined by the experimental trials, was used to determine the applied force needed to accelerate at a given rate. 
the acceleration was determined through 7 trials where the applied force was changed. the data produced is shown in graph 3.1. the data in graph 3.1 is best fit by a linear model. this experimental model shows that the relationship between applied force and acceleration is linear. the data and experimental mathematical model show that as the applied force increases, the acceleration increases as well.
group odo and group dax had similar results to the results my group had. group odo’s mathematical model was more closely related to my group’s model than group dax’s model. however, both groups concluded that there is a linear relationship between the applied force and acceleration. these results support my group’s claim. 
the equation of the line, the experimental mathematical model, was given as $y=4.369 x + 0.0599$. the theoretical model is $a=\frac{f}{m}$. the experimental model has a y intercept that isn’t zero, while the theoretical model has a y intercept that is zero. this is most likely caused by the friction of the pulley, the initial force of the vacuum in the system, and the air resistance on the buoys and cart. the slope of our equation is (1/mass of the system). in the experiment we assumed the mass of the string was negligible, but if the string had a mass that was not negligible, the acceleration would no longer be uniform. as the cart moved, the applied force of the hanging weights would increase, due to increased length of hanging string. the force would be constantly increasing, causing the acceleration to constantly increase as well.

one systematic error that could have been present in our experiment is the scale might not have been properly calibrated. we could have reduced this error by measuring the mass on another scale. another possible systematic error was the external force of the air from the track. this air caused some external acceleration on the cart. a random error in our experiment could have been human error when the group pressed start on the computer to start measuring the acceleration of the cart. this could be reduced by having 3 trial runs and averaging them to find the acceleration.

one constraint of this experiment was the number of bobbers given. each group was only given 8 bobbers, so we could only make the applied force as much as .37632 n. therefore, our model is can only be used for applied forces up to 0.37632 n.  another constraint was the length of the string. since the string was given already attached to the cart, the distance travelled could only be as long as the string. however, our group determined that distance travelled doesn’t impact our model.




