conclusion and discussion

in this experiment we were testing to see if the changing the angle of release of the pendulum would affect the period time of the pendulum. after conducting this experiment, we saw no real linear relationship between the two. looking at the graph you can see that there was somewhat of a “happy-medium” at 10 degrees where the time of the period went down. but it went back up when we increased the angle again. you can also see the error bars on our graph. this shows that there was some random and systematic error. we were relying on our human reaction time to time the periods, so this was not the most accurate way to time each trial. this is the reason our error bars are as big as they are. also, we had to set the angle of release just by using a protractor. these errors could have been reduced by using a reliable timing system (like we did later in the lab) and using a reliable release system to set the angles for us.


in this experiment we were testing to see if changing the length of the string on the pendulum would affect the time of the period. we changed the length in increments of 40cm and looked to see if there was any relationship between the length and time. after conducting the experiment, we saw that there was not a complete linear relationship between the two but there was definitely some relationship between the two. as the length of the string increased we saw the time of the period increase. these trials were timed using a laser system that was timing the periods with a lot of precision so there was no random error with that. also this caused there to be little to no error bars on our graph since there was such precision with the timing of each period. the only systematic error we might have had was setting the angle of release using the protractor. we had to do this by hand, so it was more of a random error if there was something off.



theoretical model is  $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$

the full mathematical model of the graph can be represented by the equation, $y=1.5788 x^{0.4039}$, where “y” is the time of the period in seconds and “x” is the length of the string in centimeters. this was determined by plotting the graph using excel and using the line of best fit feature to derive the equation. this is a strong model for the relationship as the trendline closely relates to the theoretical equation as length is raised to nearly the .5 power, and the constant is approximately 2. this is a close match for the theoretical equation.


in this experiment we were testing to see if the mass of the actual pendulum would have an effect on the period time of the pendulum. we used weights in between 50 and 190 grams and saw how it affected the times. after conducting the experiment, we saw that there was no real relationship between the two. between masses of 50-90 the period was increasing but then between 90-190 the period was decreasing in time which shows there is no linear relationship. the size of the error bars shows that there had to be some sort of random or systematic errors. there random errors were the same as the last two in which the timing of the periods and setting of the angle of release was measured by us, so there is a chance there was some human error involved. 

there were some overall constraints throughout the lab. the biggest was not having the reliable timing system throughout the experiments. we had one for the adjusted length experiment, but for all the other trials we did not have one. you could see how big of a difference it made because there were little to no error bars for the adjusted length vs. time experiment. all the other experiments had sizeable error bars on the graphs. other constraints were that we were limited to the masses, lengths, and angles we were allowed to use. we could not expand our trials to see if there was any relationships passed the numbers we ran. this generalized our results because we had to go by the results we got in our limited range.