conclusion:

the question of what impacts the period of a pendulum was answered by testing the three independent variables is  length of string, mass of pendulum, and angle of release. 

the variable concerning mass was proven to have no affect on the dependent variable. this can be seen as whilst changing the mass significantly, the time period had little to no change. the graph of experiment 3 shows there is no correlation between the two, as there is a linear line with a virtually nonexistent slope of -0.0001. in addition, the error bars have overlap and therefore show there is no relationship between the independent variable of mass and the dependent variable of time. 

the variable concerning length was proven to have an affect on the dependent variable. this is seen as there is a clear relationship in the graph of experiment 2, with a slope of 0.0169. to further prove this, the error bars can be seen to not overlap, or even come close to overlapping, showing that by changing the length of the string, the period time is directly affected in a linear way. in experiment 4, the same variable was tested but this time using a set up with much less potential for random and systematic error. this experiment also shows a relationship between the two variables, as the error bars again do not come close to overlapping and show there is a clear affect on time by changing the length of the string

the variable concerning angle was proven to have no affect on the dependent variable. this is seen as the provided graph of experiment 1 shows a very linear line, with another virtually nonexistent slope of    -0.0007 between the two variables. to further prove that there is no relationship between the two variables, the error bars on the graph overlap, almost staying in direct line with each other. this means that as the independent variable changed, the dependent variable stayed constant. 

the relationship between length of string and the time period can be explained by the theoretical mathematical model of is  $t=cl$ with $c=\frac{2 \pi}{\sqrt{g}}$. the theoretical value for c was 0.2007 and the theoretical value for x representing the power of l was 0.5. however, after performing experiment 4 an experimental mathematical model was created using the data, this model being is  $y=0.3153x^{0.4091}$    (c is 0.315 and x representing the power of l was 0.4091). this mathematical model does support the theoretical model, even though it differs slightly. the mathematical model follows the general trend of the theoretical model, with the differences being able to be attributed to factors such as the random error of the pendulum not swinging in a perfect plane, but swaying side to side slightly. the systematic error of the photogate can be taken into account as well, with it having a 0.001s uncertainty. while this may be small it could change the mathematical model enough to make a difference in results. 

other random errors that were reduced in experiments 1-3 were human reaction time and ability to release the pendulum perfectly still and straight. these were minimized by recording 5 periods at a time, then averaging them to find a more accurate period rather than trying to time it perfectly in one quick period. each member also stayed in their respective role for each experiment, so as to keep things such as how the pendulum was released and measured constant.

the main constraints of these experiments are the fact they were performed in an open environment with tools that each can have slight systematic error. this can result in factors the skew data and influence results, such as individuals constantly walking past the swinging pendulum and possibly influencing its swing path or air resistance, even if just ever so slightly, enough that it may affect data slightly. with each measuring tool being measured by the human eye there is also possibility for human error in measuring or actual use of the pendulum, which again may change data slightly. with these constraints in mind, if the experiments were performed again they would likely result in slightly different data, even if only different by tenths of a second, this means that the generalizability of the mathematical model we obtained will likely always be slightly different from if another group were to perform our experiment exactly as we did.