discussion and conclusion

in this series of experiments, we attempted to answer the question: what impact does the mass, angle of release, and length of string have on the measured period of the pendulum? the three experiments from august 30-septmber 13 were essential in helping address this research question. lab 01 helped our group determine that the length of a pendulum’s period is not affected by the mass of the bob or the angle of release. it also allowed us to determine that there was a power relationship between the length of the string and the length of the period. lab 02 augmented our understanding of how error could have affected our results, how error could be reduced in the future, and if the conclusions drawn in the first week still held validity. lab 03 aided our understanding of the power relationship between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum. from these experiments, we can claim that the length of a pendulum’s period for small swings is not affected by the mass of the bob or the angle of release, but is affected by the length of string and exhibits a power correlation. 

the angle of release was the first independent variable tested. the data collected appears to have no pattern as it sits in the table, suggesting that the angle at which the pendulum is released has no relationship to the length of the period (table 5). as the angle is increased, there is little difference in the length of period measured (table 5). this is again seen in figure 1. in figure 1, these data points are plotted and a linear line of best fit made. the slope of this trendline is .0015, suggesting that there is likely no relationship between the two variables (figure 1). a slope of zero would indicate no relationship. error bars were included on this figure with a range of .01. when error bars were included on the figure and envisioned double their length (+/-2σ is the equivalency criterion in this course), they show substantial overlap (figure 1). this indicates that the measured period lengths may be the same value when error is considered. these experimental results led to the conclusion that the length of a pendulum’s period is not affected by the angle of release. 

the mass of the bob was the second independent variable examined. all data relating to this independent variable was provided in class and was gathered by group 3 in phys 2001l-007 13fs. the data collected appears to have no pattern in table 6, suggesting that the mass of the bob has no relationship to the length of the period. as the mass is increased, there is little difference in the length of period measured (table 6). this is also seen in figure 2. in figure 2, these data points are plotted and a linear trendline made. the slope of this trendline is 2 × 10-5, suggesting that there is likely no relationship between the two variables. again, a slope of zero would indicate no relationship. this slope is incredibly close to zero. error bars were included on this figure with a range of .01. when the error bars are envisioned at double their length (+/- 2σ is the equivalency criterion in this course), they show substantial overlap (figure 2). this indicates that the measured period lengths may be the same value when error is considered. these experimental results led to the conclusion that the period length of a pendulum is not affected by the mass of the bob. 

the third independent variable examined was the length of the string. this variable was first examined in week one and later retested using more accurate equipment in week three. all data pertaining to the first testing of this independent variable was gathered by group 5 in phys 2001l-027 13fs. data collected in week 3 using the photogate was collected by our lab group. the data from week one as it sits in the table appears to have a pattern (table 7). as the length of the string increases, the period of the pendulum does also (table 7). it is difficult to determine what kind of positive relationship this is by looking at the table, but it appears to be linear (table 7). upon graphing these data points and finding a trendline, it is determined that a power function best represents the relationship between the data (figure 3). the equation for this curve is $y=0.12311904 x$ (figure 3). this equation fits the data very well as the r2 value is equal to 0.9981 (figure 3). error bars were included on this figure with a range of .1. when the error bars are envisioned at double their length (+/- 2σ is the equivalency criterion in this course), they show no overlap (figure 3). this indicates that the measured period lengths are likely to be different and significant when error is considered. these initial experimental results led to the conclusion that the period of a pendulum is affected by the length of string used and is related by a positive, power function. 

to augment our understanding of this relationship, we conducted the same experiment, this time using a photogate to gain more accurate period readings. the data from week three, as it sits in the table, appears to have a pattern (table 8). as the length of the string increase, the period of the pendulum does also (table 8). it is difficult to determine what kind of relationship is shown through the data on the table, but it appears to be either linear or power (table 8). upon graphing these data points and finding a trendline that best fits the data, it is determined—like in week one—that a power function best fits the data (figure 4). the equation for this curve is $y=0.1354111 x$ (figure 4). the equation fits the data very well as it has an r2 value of 0.9926 (figure 4). error bars were included on this figure with a range of .0001 (figure 4). the range for these error bars is much smaller because the uncertainty of the measuring device used—a photogate—was much smaller (figure 4). because of this the error bars cannot be seen (figure 4). when the length of the error bars is doubled (+/- 2σ is the equivalency criterion in this course), they show no overlap (figure 4). this indicates that the measured period lengths are likely to be different when error is considered. these results are incredibly similar to those found in the week one data. considering both weeks of data, a conclusion can be made that the period of a pendulum is affected by the length of the string and is related through a positive, power function. 

the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is is  $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ where t is  period (s), g is gravity, and l is length of string. our lab group was unable to come up with the full theoretical model for the period of the pendulum from our experiments. we were not able to calculate the gravity exerted on our pendulum apparatus, so our model treats gravity as a constant, rendering our model incomplete. in doing a sample problem where we take the pendulum length to be 50 cm, the theoretical model produces a period length of 1.42 s and our calculated model a value of 1.612 s. these values are similar in magnitude and differ by 0.192 seconds, a small difference. because these values are so similar in magnitude the theoretical model does lend some credence to our calculated model. however, because gravity was not able to be considered, our model cannot be fully supported by the theoretical.

random errors were present in our experiments. random error is inherently present in the measuring devices we used. because these measuring devices only provide measurements to a certain point there is a level of uncertainty involved with every measurement. the level of uncertainty is dependent on how accurate the measuring device is. as a result, random error also occurred when we estimated one decimal place beyond the markings of the tape measure, ruler, and protractor. because the first week’s measurements required and human-operated stop watch, reaction time was another source of random error. reaction time in stopping the pendulum could be too fast or too slow, causing random variations in the data. changing environmental conditions between trials could have been another source of random error, but were not detected. these fluctuations in measurements as a result of random error were reduced by conducting multiple trials and averaging the data points. in addition to conducting multiple trials, computers or—in this case—photogates could be used to reduce random error from measurement devices and reaction time. all stopwatches and photogates were calibrated properly. all rulers, protractors, and tape measures were intact and not manipulated in anyway that would cause systematic errors in our data. 

there are few constraints in this experiment that would limit the generalizability of our data. because the length of the pendulum string could only extend 200 cm in the lab, our results may only be applicable to pendulum lengths under 200 cm. because our lab was tasked with finding independent variables that affect the pendulum for small swings, the angle of release was never increased above 90 degrees in lab. due to this constraint, our findings may not be applicable to pendulums with large swings. 
