conclusion:
for the first experiment, one research question was posed: what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? different factors that played a role in this experiment include the dependent variable, the period of the pendulum (seconds) and independent variables which included length (cm), mass (g), and angle (degrees). for each experiment, an independent variable was tested with the other two variables as controls to observe the effect of the tested independent variable on the period of the pendulum, the dependent variable. after collecting and analyzing data, it was determined that length of the string had a correlation with the period of the pendulum. figure 1 shows that length of the string has a positive linear relationship with the period of the pendulum. from the data collected, the trials where mass was the independent variable demonstrated that the mass had negative relationship with the period of the pendulum (shown in figure 2) while the trials where the angle was the independent variable showed that there was little correlation between the change in the angle and the period of the pendulum (shown in figure 3). based on these results, it was determined that changing the mass and angle did not influence the period of the pendulum, and the length of the string was the variable that had a correlation with the period of the pendulum. 

for the second part of the experiment, uncertainty of the experiment was analyzed to determined if there were any possible errors. errors in this experiment consisted of random and systematic errors. random errors in the experiment one included the starting and stopping time of the stop watch, the miscounting of the period of the pendulum, and the slight change in the angle from which the pendulum was released in between each trial. it was determined that to minimize these random errors, one person would be designated to control the stopwatch, versus two people. before the experiment, the counting of the period of the pendulum would be discussed to reduce confusion, and the angle would be measured before every swing. some of the systematic errors form this first experiment included a shift in the string attached to the apparatus after every swing, which would affect the length, slight variation in the weight of the pendulum, as well as uncertainty with the measuring tape. to minimize these systematic errors, it was determined that the length of the string would be measured after every swing to ensure that it be constant, the weight of the pendulum would be measured with a scale, and two different measuring devices would be used to reduce the uncertainty of one measuring tape. additionally, 10 trials were tested in this experiment with the adjustments to the errors observed. length for this experiment was 40cm, mass 70g, and the angle 45º. the results for these trials gave a standard deviation of ±0.007888. 

for experiment 3, the results from experiment 1 and the considerations from experiment 2 were considered to test the hypothesis that the period of the pendulum is affected by the length of the string. a mathematical model was created based on the results of this experiment. after analyzing each figure using error bars, it was determined that the only correlation was between length of the string vs the period of the pendulum, therefore, in this experiment, the length of the string was the independent variable, the period was the dependent variable, and the mass (50g) and angle (45º) were the control variables as shown in table 8. the data was collected using a photogate to obtain the period of the pendulum. based on the results as seen in figure 5, it was determined that the best fit line for the correlation of the length vs period of the pendulum was power law, $y=0.1293543 x$ with an r2 value of 0.9992. while these results are very closed to and r2 value of 1, based on the theoretical mathematical model, $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, acceleration was not considered, therefore the results are not completely accurate. based on the data collected from these sets of experiments, the period of the pendulum was 1.59s with a length of 0.5m, however using the mathematical model, it was determined that the true values are closer to 1.42s for a length of 0.5m.