discussion and conclusion

for this lab the question of “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?” was investigated. three separate experiments were conducted in labs prior to the third lab to determine what impacts the time it takes for a pendulum to complete one period length. after the three tests were completed it was determined that the weight and angle of the pendulum had no effect on the time of the period but, the length of the string did in fact of an effect on the time of the period. by consulting the graph, it can be seen an increase in the length of the string results in an increase in the time of the period, they are positively correlated. figure 1 and table 1 indicate that correlation between increasing length and time which is positively correlated. based on figure 1 and the error bars in the graph an overlap can be seen but they still indicate and maintain a slope in the upwards direction. the equivalency criterion for this test was determined to be + or - .001. the mass of the pendulum was negligible or could be kept constant because figure 2 had no slope which meant there was no change to the mass so, the mass could remain constant. based on these results an equivalency criterion was found to be + or - .001 for the mass experiment.  figure 4 showed that the angle of release also didn’t matter because it had no slope so the angle could also remain the same. the uncertainty for this graph was also determined to be + or - .001 in the angle experiment. the theoretical mathematical model for a pendulum is  which relates to the results collected from this experiment. the results relate due to the fact that the numbers in the equation are similar to the numbers in the results. an equation was obtained from the graph in figure 1. period vs. length graph which is, , which is similar to the mathematical model of a pendulum after the equation is manipulated to be equal to the equation from the graph. when is divided by the square root of g, the number 2.007 is obtained which is close to the 2.0014 number from the graph equation. then, with the derivative of a square root being to the power of ½ that also matches the equation from the graph because it is around ½. several errors could of or did happen throughout the course of the lab. the systematic error of pressing the stop watch to early or to late consistently was corrected for by using a machine that timed the pendulum string instead of person timing it to reduce that systematic error. the random error of rounding numbers was corrected for by not only having the machine time the period which timed it for you but also, the number of trials for each swing was increased. so, the machine measured five swings then the same trial was done three times to help further reduce random error. the systematic error of pushing the pendulum upon release was not really correct by a machine but care was taken when releasing the string as not to push it. all the errors were determined to have an uncertainty of + or - .001 for each of them. “because experimental errors are inherent to the instruments and techniques used in this lab course, an equivalency criterion of ±2σ will be used to determine if two values may be equivalent. recall that ±2σ provides a confidence level of 95%, indicating that the true value is very likely to lie within this range of uncertainty.” (uc lab 02) a constraint that would limit the generalizability of our results are not taking the lab seriously which would bring about errors in the lab and would further prevent the lab from being applied. another constraint would be that this lab, in its last run, was completed over the course of two hours so for the lab to more applied or more generalized more time may need to be taken as to prevent errors and enable the people doing the experiment to have more time investigate.  




