discussion and conclusion

how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force is changed?  labs 5 and 6 very clearly answers that question.  refer to figure 1, which represents the collected data in graph form.  without looking at any numbers, the trend is positive.  when the hanging force increases, the acceleration of the system increases.  figure 1 does also include the mathematical formula for the line that trends through the collected data.  $y=0.0054 x - 0.152$ represents a linear equation which explains the increase in slope.

when referencing two other groups in the class, the trend is similar in that when the hanging force is increased, the acceleration of the system increases.  

	group 3 presented their collected data and sample of graph while indicating the independent variable, dependent variable, and control variables.  their results do support the results found in this experiment.  the mathematical models are similar in numbers and the trend is also positive.
	group 4 also indicated all variables and the collected data from their series of trials.  their calculated mathematical model via excel also coincides with the results from this experiment, supporting the accepted hypothesis that the hanging force does affect the acceleration of the nearly-frictionless system.

	the theoretical model, drawn in table 1, was an educated guess of what the mathematical model would look like after collecting data.  this is based on any knowledge the group had in mass versus acceleration.  comparing this to the mathematical model formulated from $f=m a$, $a=\frac{f}{m}$,  f is the hanging force, a is the resulting acceleration, and m is the mass of the system.  acceleration is then represented as the slope of the linear equation $y=0.0054 x - 0.152$ presented on figure 1.

	another force that has shown up in the experimental context is gravitational force.  this force is a constant in this nearly-frictionless system because it is the pull on the hanging mass.  this is what is calculated in the hanging force.  this mass, however manipulated or transferred from cart to hanging mass, only shows as the hanging mass in the experiment due to the nearly-frictionless state.  when there is no friction, the mass of the cart is irrelevant.  the mass of the string connecting the hanging mass to the cart would not affect the uniform acceleration either due to it being a controlled variable.  nothing about the mass of the string would affect the acceleration.  this is a constant and the trend of the slope would still be a positive.

	a systematic error in this experiment would be related to the scale used to measure the masses.  the scale may not have been properly calibrated and may not be completely exact due the limited number of decimal places read from it.  however, the measurements would still be consistent.  a way to correct this in the future is by using a digital scale that can read several decimal places and present a more accurate mass.  another random error that may be present in this experiment is that while performing the trials, the releaser may have been unknowingly pushing the cart instead of releasing.  this would increase acceleration and alter the data slightly.  to fix this in the future, using a release mechanism would erase this type of error.

	constraints in this experiment that may limit generalizability of the results above would relate to the nearly-frictionless system and time limit.  there is always some miniscule amount of friction in an experiment not set up in a vacuum.  also, time limit restricts the number of trials performed in the experiment.  with more trials comes more accuracy in the presented results.
