discussion and conclusion:

	what factor(s) directly affect the duration of a pendulum period with small swings? this question was answered by testing the independent variables is  angle of drop, length of string, and mass of bob. the angle of drop helped answer this question by showing that there seemed to be no relationship between it and the duration of the period. this seems to be a reasonable conclusion since using the equivalency criterion, the data points overlap, meaning that each of the data points could realistically be equal.

	the length of the string helped answer the research question because it showed what is very likely, a direct relationship between it and the duration of the period. this can be seen by the increase of period duration as the string length gets longer in data table/figure 2. however, using the equivalency criterion, there is still some overlap in some of the data points, so some of them could be equal. for this reason, another test was run testing the independent variable string length. this time it was done with a photogate. looking at figure/data table 4, there is no overlap in the data points, meaning that there seems to be a direct relationship between the string length and the period duration.

	making the mass of the bob the independent variable helped answer the research question by showing that there appears to be no direct relationship between it and the duration of the period. this can be seen from data table/graph 3 where all the data points are very closely within each other’s equivalency criterion. (group 3 in phys 2001l-007 13fs)

	the theoretical mathematical model is . in the equation t is equal to the duration of the period, pi is the 3.1415 constant, g is the gravity constant 9.818m/s, l is the length of the string. this fits with the data set because it was found that the length of string is the only independent variable that has a direct relationship with the dependent variable duration of period. if mass or angle influenced the duration of the period, then they would be in the theoretical mathematical model of some sort, but since only duration of period, length of string, and constants are in the equation, this means mass and angle do not have a direct relationship on it. the other way it is known that length of string has a direct relationship with duration of period is from the curve seen in graph 4. this graph has a power series curve with an r-squared value of .998 which means that it fits extremely well and that it is very likely that there is a relationship between the duration of period increasing while the string length increases.

	the main errors that were involved in this experiment were random errors. this resulted from the fact that in the first three experiments, everything was done by hand. the main error would have come in the timing of the periods. this is because the periods were measured with stopwatches. this lead to random error because people could stop them at different times. this was combated by having four stopwatches running and taking the average of them, but there was still some random error to be had. however, in the fourth experiment, the photogate measured the periods, so much of the random error was taken out, and the measurements were much more precise. this is not to say there could have been no random error, because even with the photogate test, the string length and angle measurements were all still taken by human hand. the main way this was combated was by having multiple people double check the measurements before the experiment proceed. in future studies, it may be beneficial to have machines like the photogate, complete some of the other measurements as well.

	the main constraints in this experiment relate to the random error that was found. if another group did the same experiment, they could take measurements a slightly different way, or have some sort of error that could sway the results. if there was a more stable way to produce the same results every time (such as some sort of machinery), then the results could be more greatly generalized.
