discussion and conclusion: 

the goal of this experiment was to determine whether the angle of release, length of the string, or weight of the mass impacts the period of the pendulum. each of these parameters were tested individually keeping the other variables constant. 



while testing for the of the mass, we kept the angle of release at 5 degrees and the length of the string to 18in for each trial. the masses tested were 50g, 110g, 170g, 210g, and 250g. the time of one swing with each mass was taken three times which were averaged to determine the time it takes for a pendulum to swing once. at a first glance, the graph of the weight of mass vs time shows a slight positive correlation. however, this slope was shallow enough to be considered zero. the error bars were 0.076s which was determined by finding the standard deviation of the time of 10 swings with a 90g mass, 20in length of string, and 10-degree angle of release. this means that the variation of the measurement of time was .076s in either direction. the equivalency criterion is ±2σ. this means that the confidence level that the actual value is within the range of uncertainty is 95%. the error bars clearly overlap each other on the graph, so there is no correlation between the weight of the mass and the period of the pendulum. we stated in our hypothesis that there would be a correlation between the time and the weight of the mass and predicted that as the weight increased, period of the swing would decrease. given this information from the data, we can prove our hypothesis wrong. 
to determine if there was a correlation between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum we found the time of each swing at length 5in, 10in, 15in, 20in, and 25in while keeping the angle of release and weight of mass constant at 5-degrees and 90g respectively. the graph of this experiment shows a strong positive correlation. this means that as the length of the string increases, so does the period of the swing. the error bars are 0.076s and the equivalency criterion is ±2σ which means that there is 95% confidence level that the actual values lie within the range of uncertainty. the error bars do not completely overlap each other which shows that there is dependence. our hypothesis said that there would be a correlation between the length of string and the period of the swing and we predicted that this correlation would be positive. because there is dependence shown from the length of the error bars, if it safe to say that this data supports our hypothesis. 
the graph for angle of release vs period of pendulum swing was generated by measuring the time of 10 swings and taking the average at 5-degrees, 10-degrees, 15-degrees, 20-degrees, and 25-degrees while keeping the length of the string (18in) and weight of mass (90g) constant. the graph showed a slope of 0 which is evidence to suggest that the period of the swing is not dependent on the angle of release. however, more must be considered. the error bars were 0.076s which shows the variance, or standard deviation, of the time measuring technique. the equivalency criterion is ±2σ which means that the confidence level that the actual value lies within the range of uncertainty is 95%. these error bars overlap each other just like in the mass graph which gives more evidence that angle of release does not impact the period of the pendulum swing. our hypothesis was that time and angle of release were correlated and we predicted that as the angle of release increased, so would the period of the swing. there is no dependence shown from the error bars, so it is safe to disprove out hypothesis. 



once we graphed our data using the photogate program, we determined that the power curve function best suited our graph due to the slight curve the data points produced. this line gave an equation of $t=0.119988 x$ which is very close to the theoretical mathematical model, $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ . the theoretical equation simplifies to $t=0.201*l^{0.5}$. it is very clear that the theoretical model and the model that we generated are very close with only minor discrepancies which could be due to random and systematic error. 



one of the largest errors that occurred in this experiment was a random error due to the measuring of time with a stopwatch. it is very difficult to be sure that the timer is pressing start and stop at the exact time the swing starts and ends. this was quite possibly the largest error made in this experiment. another random error is due to the exact motion of the pendulum. we noticed that our pendulum moved in an oval motion rather than a straight back and forth motion which is due to human error because of the way that the pendulum is released. also, discrepancies in which member of the group released the pendulum or took the time could have resulted in random error because one group member might do each task a little bit differently. one systematic error was that the bar holding the string was not completely parallel to the floor. this bar was used to measure the angles which means that the angle for each measurement was just a little bit smaller than recorded. also, there was an uncertainty range of 0.001s for the photogate which was another source for systematic error. 

one constraint for this experiment is that we could only take the period of a pendulum with a mass of 50-250 grams. theses were the only masses available to us, so we could not measure incredibly small masses or very larges masses. also, the length of the string was contingent on the height of the apparatus which did not allow for incredibly long pendulums before hitting the floor. we were encouraged not use incredibly large angles, so we were unable to test angles larger than 30 degrees which could have shown different results.