conclusion:
The purpose of these experiments was to determine how the acceleration of a system changes when the applied force changes. Figure 1 displays a strong positive linear relationship between the hanging mass and acceleration. The error bars for this graph are extremely small, which further validates the data that was collected and the relationship it demonstrations. From the data, we can claim that as the applied force increases, so does the acceleration of the system. The equation $y=4.7909 x + 0.05$ uses 1/mass as its slope and has a y-intercept, which indicates that some sort of systematic error is present. Groups Rom and Nerys had similar results to ours.

	Group Rom found the equation $y=4.7055 x - 0.0167$ which is very close to our equation. The difference between each equation’s slopes is less than 0.1. One thing to note is that their y-intercept is negative while ours is positive. Both are extremely small, however. Overall, I believe Group Rom’s data supports ours. Group Nerys’s equation, $y=5.259 x - 0.0096$ was less close to ours, but still supports our data pretty well. Their slope differed from ours by a little more than 0.3. Once again, they had a negative y-intercept while ours was positive, which might indicate some error in our measurements since both of the other groups had negative y-intercepts.
	In class, we derived that the acceleration of the system can be obtained from the following equation.

Where  is the mass of the system and F is the applied force. This means that the slope of our experimental equation results in 5.45. This is larger than our slope and the slopes of the other groups, which is likely due to some other forces involved in the system. We were assuming that the pulley and string were massless. Since, in reality, the pulley and string both have mass, they also had inertia that will decrease the acceleration of the system. Similarly, we assumed there wasn’t any friction, but there may have been some present, which would also decrease overall acceleration. The theoretical equation also does not have any y-intercept while our experimental equation does. This is probably because of the forces mentioned for slope and/or systematic error. Systematic error could have come from the scale used to measure the mass of the system if it was improperly calibrated or the computer system used to measure the acceleration. There also could have been random error when measuring mass. To reduce random error in the future, we could take multiple measurements and use the average. To reduce systematic error, we would have to make sure that everything is properly calibrated.
	We had a limited range of data in our experiments, which may limit the generalizability of our results. Our applied force only went from 0.048167 to 0.284882 N, so much larger could possibly have a different effect that we did not measure.


