discussion and conclusion:



the question being investigated in this lab is what factors affect the period length for one full swing of a pendulum. factors tested included string length, mass of the pendulum, and the angle at which the pendulum was released. in the first experiment, conducted on 8/29, experimental designs were constructed so as to isolate one of the three variable at a time while keeping the other two variables unchanged. the period of the pendulum was then measured in multiple trials where the independent variable was changed in a variety of ways so a general trend could be concluded. based on the first day of the experiment, and as pictured in the graph corresponding to table three, it appeared that the changing of the mass of the pendulum did not affect the period of the pendulum, as the error bars for the plots in the mass of the pendulum versus the period of the pendulum graph overlapped for the data collected, signifying that the minute differences in the recorded period of the pendulum were due to error. based on the first graph corresponding with table one, it also seemed that the changing of the string length affected the period of the pendulum, as there appeared to be a direct trend between string length and the pendulum’s period and the error bars did not overlap, meaning that differences in data points were indeed significant and not due to chance or error. initially, we were unsure if the release angle of the pendulum also affected the period time of the pendulum. based on the first graph for table two, the error bars for a few of the data points did overlap, and the trend line was not as steep as for string length versus period of the pendulum. on 9/12, we performed the experiment again, but this time measured period of pendulum using the much more precise photogate system. based on the results collected, there existed no relationship between the angle of the pendulum and the period of the pendulum, and thus, it could be concluded that angle of release does not affect the period of the pendulum. this is pictured in the second graph corresponding to table two. additionally, we re-conducted the string length versus pendulum period experiment using the photogate system to confirm our conclusions using a more precise system, and the data collected confirmed our initial idea that string length and the period of the pendulum are directly correlated, and thus, as string length increases, so does period.  



the theoretical math model discovered during lab on 9/12 is as follows is    

according to this model, the period of the pendulum is affected only by the independent variable of string length. the period of the pendulum can be calculated by multiplying two by pi by the square root of the quotient resulting from length of the string (in the si unit of meters) divided by gravity, which is a constant. our data fits with this model because according to the data collected on 8/29 as pictured in the graph for table 3 and discussed above, the mass of the pendulum did not have an effect on the period of the pendulum. based on the data collected on 8/29 and represented by the first chart from table two, it was unclear as to whether the angle of release impacted the period of the pendulum, as most of the error bars overlapped, but a few outliers existed. however, on 9/12 when photogate was used and as pictured in the second graph for table two, it became clear that the angle of release did not impact the period of the pendulum. based on the data collected and pictured for table one, the length of the string most definitely impacted the period of the pendulum. thus the only independent variable tested that did indeed impact the period of the pendulum was the length of the string, agreeing with the theoretical math model. although the curve represented on the string length versus period of pendulum graph does not precisely line up with the theoretical math model, the general trend in that string length and period are directly related is still obvious. for example, it was calculated that for a pendulum with a 0.50 m string length, the period of the pendulum would be about 1.42 seconds based on the mathematical model. however, based on the trend line derived from the data we collected on 9/12 and the trendline observed on the second chart for table 1, the period would be expected to take about 1.55 seconds. reasons why the graph we constructed using photogate may not completely match the model are partly due to the few trials conducted using photogate due to the time constraint of the lab class, as well as error discussed below.                 



random and systematic error are often due to the measuring device or technique used, however, random error will fluctuate. it may not always be present, it may sometimes over estimate a value or underestimate a value. systematic error is constant and consistent. for this reason, systematic error will result in recordings differing from actual values, but because it is constant, it will affect all data equally and will still allow for general trends to be observed. random error however is less consistent and may make detecting trends more difficult. more trials and a larger sample size are good for reducing random error. in the experiments conducted on 8/29, a hand-held stopwatch was used to measure the period of the pendulum. because the stopwatch is controlled by a human and it may be difficult to exactly measure when the period truly starts and ends, as well as one’s reaction time may be slightly off, the recorded period may be greater or less than the true period. this may contribute, for example, as to why the data points for the graph of mass versus period of pendulum as shown in the graph representing table 3 are not all the same. although the error bars for the plot do indeed overlap, the points would ideally all be consistent, as it was confirmed by the ta whole that the mass of the pendulum does not have any effect on the period of the pendulum. this is why calculating the standard deviation and adding error bars to the graphs was so important because from the error bars, one can see that the mass plots overlap when considering error, meaning that the actual data may indeed have been constant, and any differences in the data collected were due to the random error. ways in which we aimed to reduce this error were in having multiple group members time the same trial, and averaging the result. repeating the trial would have also helped in collecting a more precise period measurement. the stopwatch could possibly also present systematic error. if the stopwatch were lagging, then all the period data collected using that stopwatch would be equally affected. to alleviate this source of error, new stopwatches and fresh batteries could be used. similarly, the use of the photogate could present systematic error in the same way by lagging. if the photogate experienced inconsistent instances of not detecting a swing (which it did in our experience where we had to reconduct trials in which a swing was not detected or measured) or sometimes detecting the pendulum after or before the swing truly started or finished, random error would be present. another source of random error for the experiment would be that humans were measuring the angle of release for the pendulum, and although the same person may be measuring the angle each time using the same protractor and point of reference, it is still very possible that the person slightly moves or misreads a measurement, creating a lack of consistency in measuring the angle of release. by having the same person measure the angle each time, random error would be reduced. a similar source of random error could result in measuring the length of the string. although the same measuring tape was used each time and the point of measurement was intended to be consistent, the person measuring the string may have slightly varied their reference points, held the measuring tape at different angles, or simply reading the tape incorrectly. again, to reduce this error, the same person measured the string length for each trial, and the string was intended to be measured from the exact point where the string connects to the rod and the pendulum each time. the measuring tape may have also presented systematic error if it was stretched out for example. again, this would affect everything measured by the measuring tape in the same way and should thus not affect overall trends. other sources of systematic error that would not affect trends due to their consistency would be if the masses used for the string length versus period and reference angle versus period trials varied from what it was labeled as. however, if some of the masses truly did vary from their actual mass and not by a consistent degree, the mass versus period trial would be affected by random error and the trend would also be affected. ways to negate this error would be in measuring each mass used with a calibrated scale and ensuring that the masses match what they are labeled to be.



a constraint presented by this experiment is the fact that it was conducted only on small swings, as the question being investigated was “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings.” thus, we cannot say for sure whether the results hold true for much larger swings. given the constraints of space and available materials presented by the environment in which the experiment was performed, it would be very difficult to test how significantly larger swings are affected.