discussion 

dependent variable: string length (cm)

based on the data and the graph the length of the string does affect the period of the pendulum. this is evident because looking at the graph there is a linear relationship between the two variables. as the string length increase the period of the pendulum also increases. the graph also has small error bars, which shows that the data is not spread out from each other. the uncertainty calculated by the standard deviation of the data shows that the data overlaps, which indicates that the numbers may be slightly similar, but they are not the same. as well as the error bars do not overlap which indicate that they are significantly different.  



based on the data and the graph, the mass of the bob has no affect on the period of the pendulum. this is shown clearly in the graph without the error bars because it shows that the relationship between the two variable is not linear. the periods are also very close together which is shown from the graph with the error bars and the data table, this shows that as the mass is increased the period is neither increased or decreased. looking at the graph with the error bars it is easy to see that the bars overlap which indicated that the data points are not significantly different. 

dependent variable is  release angle (degrees) 

based on the data and the graphs, the angle of release does not have an affect on the period of the pendulum. this shown by the relationship on the graph without error bars to be nonlinear. the points on the graph of the period are also close together which indicate that the as the angle of release increases the period does not increase or decrease. by looking at the graph with the error bars it is easy to see that the bars overlap which indicates that the data points are not significantly different. 


the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is, $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, which is $y=0.2 x^{0.5}$ if you simplify the equation. our value that we calculated in lab 3 was 0.5062 using the photogate, is close to the value of 0.5 which is the theoretical value.


one random error that could have occurred that would skew the data would be that the measuring scale was not properly calibrated which would skew the mass measurements data. to reduce this error, we could have calibrated the scale first to ensure that the measurements were accurate and consistent. another random error that could have occurred that would skew the data is that when we measured the length of the string and then made it tight, so it wouldn’t move during this process the length got slightly longer or shorter. to reduce this one person could have held the bob then another person makes it tight to ensure that it wouldn’t change length even slightly. a third random error could be using the stop watches to measure the period. while we did have three people all taking time to try to reduce error, it was difficult to all start and stop at the same time. to reduce this in the third week we used the stop gate which calculated the period for us. this made the data more accurate and consistent because the computer was computing for us. the last random error was the measuring the release angle. we did try to reduce error by having one person find the release angle each time, so it was consistent, but they could have made a slight mistake in the angle which would skew the data. also, if the protractor was slightly bent this would skew the data. to reduce this error completely we could have made a machine that release the bob at a specific angle. there were no systematic errors to report. this experiment did have one constraint which would cause it to not be able to be generalized. the research question is “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings.” the small swings are what constrains the experiment, the angle of release could not be larger than 30◦ this means that the results are only valid for the angle to be 30◦ or below. if the angle is above this value, then the assumptions from the data can not be made. 
