discussion and conclusion:

so, as it can be seen on the graph, there is a relationship between the applied force to the system and the acceleration of the system. the trials were done and a linear fit gives the data the equation $y = 4.7055 x-0.0167$. so, the prediction was that as the applied force to the system increased, so would the acceleration. based on the data collected, this prediction can be confirmed. other groups findings also support this prediction. team garak had a similar equation of $y = 4.7909 x+0.052$. as shown by the equation, there is also a positive correlation between the applied force and the acceleration of the system. team nog’s equation was $y= 3.8893 x+0.0258$. this equation also shows a positive correlation between the acceleration of the system and the applied force. lastly, team odo’s equation $y = 5.1169 x-0.0112$ shows the positive correlation between the acceleration of the system and the applied force. the results of all three other groups support the hypothesis that the acceleration of a system is impacted by the applied force. and the results of all three other groups also support the prediction that as the applied force increases, so does the acceleration of the system. so, this is all great, but what is really lying beneath all this? well, it is the equation $f = m a$, force equals mass times acceleration. or, divide both sides of the equation by m and get $f=m a$, acceleration equals force divided by mass. these theoretical models are both supported by our experimental model, however some errors cause differences between the theoretical and experimental model. some random error in this experiment could be air resistance. this is a random error since the surface area of the bobbers was constantly changing by taking bobbers off the system and using them as hanging mass. a constraint of this experiment would be a relatively small mass, which does not fluctuate much. a heavier string connecting the hanging weight of the system would decrease the acceleration due to an increased mass. 
