discussion and conclusion:



    this lab was performed to determine whether the length of the string, the mass on the string or the angle of release would impact the length of the period of a pendulum. in order to tell which variable was having an effect, they were each tested separately as independent variables while the other two became control variables. for each independent variable tested, there were three different measurements and each of those was tested three times to obtain the most accurate data.

    the length of the string was tested first as an independent variable. three separate lengths were chosen, while the mass on the string and the angle of release stayed the same. the pendulum was released and was timed for three full swings. the resulting time was divided by three to get the length of one period. the data collected in table 1a and the resulting figure 1 graph show that as the length of the string increased, so did the length of the period. in figure 1, it can be seen that there was a direct correlation, resulting in a linear relationship. 

    the mass on the string was the next independent variable to be tested. a similar procedure was repeated for this variable except that the mass was changed three times and the length of the string remained the same. the data shown in table 2a shows that as the mass was increased, the length of the period decreased then increased again. figure 2 does have a best-fit line drawn that is linear but there actually was no correlation between the mass on the string and the length of the period. 

     the final independent variable tested was the angle of release. the pendulum was released at three separate angles while the length of the string and the mass on the string remained constant. as shown in table 3a and figure 3, there was no correlation between the angle of release and the length of the period. after changing the angle three times, the length of the period was relatively consistent. 

     after testing all three variables, it was concluded that the length of the string was the only factor that impacted the length of the period.

      to find the standard deviation for the experiment, it was set up again except all variables were held constant. the experiment was ran ten times and the uncertainty was averaged for each period, resulting in a standard deviation of +/- 0.007888. the standard deviation can be seen graphed on figure 4. 
      to help reduce random error, the experiment was set up for a final time, using five different lengths and a photogate sensor, which calculated the period length using a motion sensor. after graphing the data from table 4, it was discovered that there was not a linear relationship between the length of the period and the length of the string. after consulting figure 4, it is seen that there was a power law relationship between the data when fitted with a best-fit line. the relationship discovered does make sense when compared to the theoretical mathematic model for the period of a pendulum, , where l is length of the string, g is gravity and t is the length of the period in seconds. the theoretical model also displays why the mass and the angle had no effect on the period length. in this lab, the acceleration/gravity was not accounted for which explains why the data collected in table 4 is not equal to the outputs of the theoretical model. the exclusion of acceleration does put constraint on the model but comparable data can still be obtained. the period length of a string that is 0.5m long would be 1.42 seconds if plugged into the theoretical model and if using table 4, would be 1.59 seconds. the data is not the same but it is close. a separate experiment would have to be set up that included acceleration to find a more accurate model. 



      the three experiments where setup in very similar fashions but there was still room for error. for example, initially after testing the mass on the string vs the length of the period, it was concluded that there was an indirect correlation between the mass and the period length. after plotting error bars on figure 2, it was concluded that the data included a random error and there was actually no correlation between the two variables. in the lab, a few other random errors could have come from a miscommunication about the definition of a period or incorrectly timing the periods with a stopwatch by stopping/starting too early or too late. these errors were reduced in the third experiment by using a photogate, which calculated the time using a motion sensor and the program refreshed and recalculated every time an object passed the sensor. it is also possible that there were systematics errors such as the string becoming loose between trials, the measuring tape being incorrect or the weights being slightly different masses. these errors could be reduced by making sure the string is tight before each trial, re-measuring the length with a second form of measuring or re-measuring before each trial and by weighing each weight on a calibrated scale. there is still room for error but by taking precautions, more precise data can be collected.