conclusion:
The experiment was set up using an assumed frictionless track. A large gold mass was provided weighing a total of 151.4 g +/- 0.05 g. Eight small red and white masses were provided weighing 5.0 g +/-0.05g. Together, the total weight of the system is measured to be 191.4g +/-0.05g. An image of the set up can be found in figure 1.  The distance of the system was measured to be 910 mm +/-0.005mm given the ruler at the bottom of the frictionless surface. Eight trials were run given different distributions of the total weight. The first trial started with 7 of the small masses attached to the large one, and 1 hanging down from the system- giving a weight distribution of 186.4g/5.0g +/-0.05g. for each trial, one small mass was removed from the large mass and moved to the hanging mass. The velocity of each trial was taken using a computer system. (figure 3) This then allowed us to find the standard deviation for each specific trial. Acceleration was found by taking the slope of the velocity vs time graph. (figure 3) This data can be found in figure 2. The data was then placed in a graph showing mass vs. Acceleration. (figure 4)
	Based on the Data collected during the first week of this week experiment, we were able to answer the question, how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes. We were able to determine the affect of force on acceleration by changing the mass od the hanging weight by 5 g +/-.05 each trial. By then measuring the velocity vs. time (figure 3) and then taking the slope of each line, we were able to produce a graph of acceleration of the system vs. mass of the hanging weight (figure 4). In this graph you can see that there is a positive linear correlation between the mass of the hanging weight and the acceleration. As the mass increases, the acceleration also increases. Error bars are also shown on this graph in order to show the distribution of the standard deviation for both the acceleration and the mass of the hanging weight. The standard error for our acceleration was +/-0.05 given that the smallest measurement was .01 m/s^2. The standard error for mass was also +/-0.05 given that the scale measured to 0.1 grams. 
	The data collected in the first week was then used in the second week of lab as a comparative measure to other groups as well and testing our analysis and equation. Using the acceleration vs. mass graph, we converted mass into force in order to determine our equation. Force was found by multiplying the mass of the hanging weight by the force of gravity (9.8m/s^2) (figure 5). A graph showing Force (N) vs. Acceleration (m/s^2) was then created (figure 6). This graph once again the graph showed a positive linear relationship between the two variables. Showing that as the force increased, acceleration also increased. Error bars are included in this graph to show the standard deviation associated with the acceleration (+/-0.05 m/s^2). Using the best fit line to the data, a general equation showing the relationship between the two was formed. The equation being $y=0.0042 x - 0.0114$. This negative value of the y- intercept is accounted for given that the track may not have been completely frictionless. 
	Using this equation, during the second week of lab, our group was given an acceleration (0.45 m/s^2) and were told to find mass needed to produce this acceleration. NOTE is  another groups track (group 1) had to be used due to our groups program not working during the lab period. Using the equation, the mass of the hanging bobble was equal to the mass of the large cart multiplied by the given acceleration divided by (9.8m/s^2 – the given acceleration). We were able to find the theoretical mass of 14.23g or a force of 139.49N given that the mass of the large cart was 295.75g. the experiential procedure from the first week of lab was repeated giving is an experimental acceleration of 0.411 m/s^2. Which was then approved by our TA Sara. 
	 Figure 7 shows an image portraying another groups data that they collected during the lab. Their lab set up was identical to that of our group. They too came up with a positive linear equation that related the applied force to acceleration. The equation that their data produced however was $y=0.00446 x - 0.0038$. Their equation, although similar to ours is not exactly the same. Discrepancies in the values may be due to random and systematic errors. In order to once again support out data, figure 8 shows a different groups data that they collected during the lab. Once again, the set up was the same as or groups. This group also found there to be a positive linear correlation between the force/mass and the acceleration. However, their equation came out to be $y=0.0038 x + 0.0717$. once again discrepancies in the numbers can be accounted for given both random and systematic errors. However, this group have a positive y-intercept where as the previous group as well as our group showed a negative y-intercept. Our group as well as the pervious group accounted for this negative value given that you cannot have a perfectly frictionless surface under this condition, this friction would take away from the acceleration making this a negative number. Given that the last group found their intercept to be positive, this deviation from the other equation would most likely be due to a systematic error in the timing device that was used to measure velocity
Random erroring this lab could be due to incorrect reads on the scale given that it was not a digital scale, it can be hard to read. Another source of random error may be due to not running multiple trials at each weight and then taking the average acceleration for these in order to create the plot. Systematic errors in this lab may be due to inaccurate calibration of the scale, the force of friction being assumed negligible, and the weight of the string being assumed to be negligible. In order to reduce these errors and help make a more standard equations across groups, the same scale should be used by all groups, along with using the same track and weights in order to make them standard. Errors could also be reduced by conducting multiple trials and then taking the average in order to find a more accurate representation of the acceleration at a given mass/force. 
	 However, given that the same trend was discovered by both groups and our group, and the equations have the same general formula and are similar in value, it can be said that both groups data supports our claim that as the force/mass of a system in increased, the acceleration of the system also increases. 
	 According to Newton’s second law of motion, the force on an object is equal to that of mass times acceleration. Or $F=m a$. Given this formula, and the help of our TA, we were able come up with the theoretical model of $a=\frac{f_g-f_f}{m_c+m_h}$ where “a” is acceleration, Fg is the force due to gravity, Ff is the force due to friction, mc is the mass of the cart, and mh is the mass of the hanging bobble. This supports out equation given that friction cannot be ignored, so you must add in the force due to friction. Also, given that the force due to gravity is what is causing the acceleration, this must also be accounted for. Since friction acts in the opposite direction of the force, it must be subtracted form the force due to gravity. The mass of the system and not just the mass of the hanging bobble must be accounted for given that they are connected creating an entire system. In order to account for multiple forces, the equation $F= m a$, meaning that the sum of the forces in a given direction are equal to the mass times acceleration. This once again supports our theoretical model ($y=0.0042 x - 0.0114$) where x is the force due to gravity and y is the acceleration. All forces must be accounted for when using the equation given the multiple forces are typically in action. 
	 When doing this experiment, we ignored the mass of string given that it was negligible. However, this is not the case when the string is heavy. This mass must then be considering when forming an equation. Since the experiment was based on a system, the mass of the sting must be added into the total mass of the system. By adding the mass of the string, this would cause the acceleration of the system to increase given that there would be a larger force acting on the system (mass * gravity is  the force due to gravity)
	There are many constraints within this lab including neglecting the force of friction, and the equipment that was used. Friction would cause our acceleration to decrease, thus if it is chosen to be negligible within the lab, our theoretical acceleration will then be greater than that of the actual acceleration. Also, given that the equipment used throughout the groups differed and was not completely up to date, this could cause deviations in the data causing the theoretical acceleration to differ from that of the experimental acceleration.  
The above graph shows the relationship between the mass of the hanging bobble and the acceleration. This gives us a positive linear relationship between the 2 variables showing that as mass increases, acceleration then increases. Both horizontal and vertical error bars are shown with a SD of +/-0.05g and +/-0.05m/s^2 given that the scales were measured to 0.1g. 
This graph once again shows a positive linear trend between the force and the acceleration of the system. The equation for this line was then determined, $y=0.0042 x -0.0114$. The negative y-intercept value can be accounted for given a minute force of friction that may have been present. Error bars are shown giving the standard error of +/-0.05 given that acceleration can be measured to 0.1 m/s^2. This is a very small error value explaining why the error bars are quite small. 
 