discussion and conclusion

	the experimental objectives of labs 05 and 06 were to (1) design and run an experiment to develop a mathematical model from the data collected in order to predict the motion of an object due to an applied force and (2) to apply the mathematical model to produce a specific outcome. the research question being explored was the impact of an applied force on the acceleration of a system. the system being used in our experimental design was the cart plus the eight bobbers. in order to obtain values for acceleration, datastudio was used. eight trials were conducted. the first trial started with 7 bobbers on the cart and one bobber as the hanging mass. after each trial, one bobber was transferred to the hanging mass. the accelerations were recorded after each trial (table 2). a balance was used to find the mass of each individual bobber (0.0049 kg), as well as the mass of the entire system (cart + 8 bobbers is 0.1885 kg). using the mass of the individual bobber, the applied forces could be found using the equation $f = m a$. these applied forces were used to determine a relationship (if any) to the acceleration of the system (table 3 and figure 1). from the acceleration vs. force graph in figure 1, it can be concluded that there is a positive linear relationship between the acceleration of an object and the force applied to that object. this means that the acceleration increases as the force increases. the resulting mathematical model is $a = 4.873 f – 0.0077$ (figure 1). this mathematical model addresses the research question showing that as an applied force (hanging mass) increases, so will the object’s acceleration. 

	during lab 06, we were able to present our results to the other groups. a couple of the groups’ findings stood out to me. group 1 had the same hypothesis as we did and their mathematical model was very similar to ours. their mathematical model was $a = 5.25 f + 0.06$ (figure 3). this is very similar to what we had, however our y-intercept was negative, whereas theirs is positive. however, their graph still showed a positive linear relationship like ours did, which supports both of our claims that increasing the applied force will also increase the acceleration of the system. group 5’s findings were also very similar to ours. they came up with the mathematical model of $a = 4.86 f + 0.0106$ (figure 2). again, the y-intercept in their equation is positive, however, it still produces a positive linear relationship. the y-intercept in our equation could be negative due to air resistance or even friction on the track. in any case, both of the groups’ mathematical models support ours, showing that increasing the applied force also increases the acceleration of the system.

	the theoretical model for this experiment is $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$, which is derived from $f = m a$. our mathematical model was $a = 4.873 f – 0.0077$. these two models are very similar, providing us with a linear relationship between applied force and acceleration. other forces that may have impacted the experimental model include air resistance, friction from the surface of the track or the string on the pulley, mass of the string, and uncertainties from the datastudio values and the balance. these factors could have potentially caused our data to deviate from the theoretical model. the negative y-intercept in our mathematical model accounts for these forces and errors. the mass of the system is incorporated into the slope of the mathematical model, as well as the y-intercept. a non-massless string connecting the hanging mass to the cart would still produce uniform acceleration. the mass of the system remains constant. however, a non-massless string may cause the acceleration to be slightly faster than what was recorded in our experimental design.

	although our mathematical model seemed to fit the theoretical model very well, there were still some errors that came about throughout the lab. a random error could include the reaction time when starting and stopping the photogate timer or even the person releasing the cart (pulling/pushing it slightly). possible systematic errors during this lab could be incorrect calibration of the balance, not all the bobbers being the same weight, and the air pressure along the track not being the same the whole way. in order to reduce these errors, more trials could be completed so that the values can be averaged. also, more advanced technology would help to reduce some of the human error. for future experiments, all equipment should be checked and many trials should be completed so that the results can be averaged and error reduced.

	the constraints experienced during this experiment could be that the air track may not have produced an air flow that was the same for all the trials and that friction could not be properly measured. the flow of air could have potentially skewed the data, making it hard to generalize our results. the same goes for the inability to properly measure friction. knowing the friction force would have helped to generalize our results, but being unable to calculate friction limits the generalizability of our results. another constraint could be that the track was tilted or the cart slightly pushed/pulled before releasing it. both of these would skew the data, limiting the generalizability of the data. however, i still believe that even with these constraints, our mathematical model still lines up pretty closely to the theoretical model, making it safe to say that an increase in an applied force leads to an increase in acceleration.