discussion and conclusion:



	the purpose of these experiments was to determine the relationship between the force applied to the system and the resulting acceleration of the system from that force. it was found that as the force applied to the system increased, the acceleration also increased. the experimental model found for the experiment is $y=4.8449 x + 0.0655$ where x is the force applied and y is the resulting acceleration. the experimental model equation from graph 1 is the best fit linear line of the data collected in table 2. when the results of the experiment are compared to those of other groups from lab, it is seen that the findings are quite similar. in figure 2, the experimental model is $y=5.1898 x - 0.0297$. these results are quite similar to the ones collected. as friction is another force acting on the system, it is shown in the b value of the equation. this b value is determined to be the force of friction/mass of the system. in figure 1, the slope of the line varies greatly from the other two slopes found. the reason for the slope in figure 1 being so low is that the data was collected in grams instead of kilograms making the slope different by about 1000x. once the slope is multiplied by 1000 or the results are converted to kg, the slopes of all three experiments are relatively similar. the string connecting the cart to the hanging mass was massless, so it was not included in the mass of the system. if the string was not massless, the acceleration of the system would be reduced. 

	there were a few errors that occurred in the experiment. one systematic error was that the balance used to measure the masses of the objects used was not entirely accurate. the values were close to the given masses but not exact. to eliminate this source of error, use a digital scale to determine exact masses of the objects used. another systematic error was that the string was tangled, reducing the total length of the string which could have influenced the results. this error can be remedied by using un-knotted strings. random error occurred when the cart was released from rest. the cart was not always released from the same position. releasing the cart from the same position will reduce the random error. one constraint on the experiment is that the track was nearly frictionless, and results cannot be generalized to a cart on rough surfaces.