discussion and conclusion 

	the purpose of this lab was to look at if adding more force onto a system would it increase or decrease the acceleration of the system. the results that were pulled from this lab confirm that if more force is added to a system then the acceleration will increase as well. in table 1, you can see that when the force applied increase then so does the acceleration. then referring to figure 1, these two items share a positive linear relationship together. our mathematical model also addresses this research question by also showing a $y=b + mx$ relationship, which is the standard equation for a straight line.


	when looking at these two groups of data compared to our own its pretty easy to tell that, what they found supports our claim as well. that being, when the applied force is increased the acceleration increases as well in a positive linear relationship. each of these groups also have a mathematical model of $y=b + m x$ which is also what we found to concluded as well. overall most groups came to the same conclusion as us except for one group where they almost had a power curve. one explanation for this would be that they used grams instead of kilograms and that could have thrown their data of just a little bit.

	so, the experimental model is the equation that we found from our graph of plotting our data. it came out to be a straight line in the form of $y=b + mx$. our equation was 0.0053x-0.0951. this is what generated our straight line giving us our experimental model. our model does have a y-intercept but that is probably down to other forces interacting with the system. some examples of those might be friction, air resistance, experimental errors, or tension from the strings. the theoretical model for this experiment is is  a$= \frac{m2 f}{m1+m2}$.  again, the big difference between the two models is down to unseen forces acting on the system outside of the investigators control. in the experimental model the mass of the system cannot be determined for sure. even with this difference between the two models each of them still comes out with a positive relationship making them extremely similar. since the mass of the string did not directly contribute to the mass of the system the cart was able to accelerate uniformly each time the experiment was run with a new mass. if the string did end up have some sort of mass, then it would need to be included in the mass of the system to properly determine the acceleration of the system. 

	some of the biggest errors that were at play in this experiment mostly come down to some systematic errors. some of those errors could be that the balance was not properly calibrated before taking the mass of the system, bobbers, and the car. another possible error could come from the data studio not being properly calibrated either cause the acceleration to be off for the experiment. these are easy fixes by first check and recalibrating each device before running the experiment if it is necessary.