discussion and conclusion

	these experiments explored the question, what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings. in experiment 2 and 4, length was our independent variable. we changed the length of the pendulum to see how it would impact the period for small swings. we found that there is a correlation between length and the period of the pendulum. graph 4 shows this correlation. the curve in graph 4 displays that when length increases so does the period of the pendulum. this trend and claim are supported by our error bars on graph 4. the error bars are set at one standard deviation and do not overlap. the equivalency criterion is plus or minus twice the standard deviation. when the error bars are set to the equivalency criterion they still do not overlap, thus we can conclude that there is a correlation between length and period. 

	in experiment 1, mass was our independent variable. we changed the mass of the pendulum to see how it would impact the period for small swings. we found that there is a not a correlation between mass and the period of the pendulum. the flat line in graph 1 displays that when mass increases, the period of the pendulum stays about the same. this trend and claim are supported by our error bars on graph 1. the error bars are set at one standard deviation and do overlap. the equivalency criterion is plus or minus twice the standard deviation. when the error bars are set to the equivalency criterion they still overlap, thus we can conclude that there is a not correlation between mass and period. 

	in experiment 3, angle was our independent variable. we changed the start angle of the pendulum to see how it would impact the period for small swings. we found that there was a not correlation between start angle and the period of the pendulum. the line in graph 3 displays that when start angle increases, the period of the pendulum stays about the same. this trend and claim are supported by our error bars on graph 3. the error bars are set at one standard deviation and they overlap for two of our three data points. the equivalency criterion is plus or minus twice the standard deviation. when the error bars are set to the equivalency criterion they all overlap, thus we can conclude that there is a not correlation between angle and period.

	furthermore, in experiment 4 we looked at the mathematical model that is displayed by a pendulum. the theoretical equation of a pendulum with small swings is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. the mathematical model we found in the was the equation of the power curve in graph 4, $y=0.1275714 x$. this produced mathematical model does not completely support the theoretical model, because we did not have a way to account for the impact of acceleration due to gravity (g) in the lab. the curve fit our data well (r-squared value is 0.9979). our produced mathematical model supports the theoretical model, because the power in the produced model is close to 0.5, the power in the theoretical model.

	in addition, there were some random errors associated with our experiments. these include using a stop watch to time the period of the pendulum. the measurement using the stopwatch was based on how fast the user could react to seeing the end of a period. this caused the data to be overestimated and underestimated throughout the first three experiments. to reduce the impact of this error, we took many measures of time for the same trial conditions and averaged the times that we measured. no systematic errors were found in this experiment.

	some constraints that impacted our experiment were limited time, uncertainty of measuring instruments, and a limited amount of trials for the first three experiments. these constraints may affect the generalizability of the results, because there may not have been enough data to make accurate claims about the effects of the independent variables on the dependent variable. in graph 2 that looked at the relationship between length and period, we did not see the correlation between the two that we should have because there was not enough data points and the variation in lengths was too small. limited time inhibited us from doing more trials. we were able to see the correct correlation in graph 4. when we did the same experiment again with more data points and variation between the chosen lengths. also, the uncertainty of the measuring instrument may have impacted the data that was analyzed.