discussion & conclusion

	the research question for this experiment asked how the acceleration of a system changes when a force is applied. the experiment with the hanging weight addressed this question by adding applied mass and force to a system and recording its acceleration. it was predicted that if the acceleration of the system were affected by the applied force, then the acceleration of the fishing bob would increase as the applied force increased. as graph 1.1 indicates, the experiment confirmed and supported this prediction, with the uncertainties in measurement displayed by the error bars on the graph. the error bars display a noticeable increase in the acceleration as the force increases. groups that had data which supported our hypothesis were groups 1 and 3, who also had increases in acceleration with increased applied force. the theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by a single force is $a=\frac{f}{m}$ or acceleration equals the force divided by the mass. the experimental mathematical model supports this by showing the increase in acceleration displayed in tables 1.2 and 1.3.  the enhanced theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by more than one force is $a=\frac{f}{m} + b$ and is supported by the experimental model $y=m x+b$. if a heavy string was connecting the hanging weight to the cart, the acceleration would increase as the weight on the string increased. random errors that could have resulted during the course of the experiment include the mass of the system being misread due to the mass of the fishing bobs being slightly varied even though they were identical in size and shape, and this error could be remedied by taking multiple readings of the masses to find an average. another error was that the vacuum track sometimes failed to launch the cart, resulting in repeated attempts to run the experiment. this was remedied by using a different vacuum track that was working properly. one form of systematic error could have occurred with the triple balance beam, due to its age, that could have had it misread the masses. one way to fix this would have been to determine how large the margin of error was and alter the data accordingly. constraints within the experiment that could have affected the generalizability of the experiment include the length of the string and size of the cart, as well as limited lab time and trials to conduct the experiment. if more varied string lengths and cart sizes were used, and more time was available to run tests and trials, the results of the experiment could be expanded in a more general sense. 