discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of the lab was to see if the applied force will affect the acceleration of the cart when the mass of the system stays constant. in this lab we had the hanging mass times 9.8 to be the applied force which was the independent variable. this is on the x-axis in figure 1. while the average acceleration is on the y-axis which means that its the dependent variable. we found a linear relationship on the graph which means there direct relationship between acceleration and the force applied. 

there were multiple groups whose data supported the results and conclusions that we got. one of those group’s data that support ours was team ram red. their whiteboard can be seen to the right. there experimental setup was similarly to ours but the only thing different is the mass of the system, which was 178.8 g. they had found a relationship that was also linear which would support the results that we had. they got a similar equation to our which was $y=4.2933 x - 0.004$ with an r2 value of 0.9937. 			                                                                                                                                                                      

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                figure 2 is  team ram red white broad

the next data that supports the conclusion that the relationship between the acceleration and the applied force is linear is shown in the experiment done by nog. this group also have a very similar set up from us. the difference was that the “yellow” cart weighted 0.1989 kg.  as show on the whiteboard to the left, nog also go a graph that was linear with $y=4.815 x - 0.14$ as their equation and a r2 value of 0.9891. the linear relationship supports the results that were found by the experiment done by us. 
	the theoretical model for the newton’s law experiment is $a=\frac{f}{m}$. while the experimental model for our experiment was $a= 4.9792 -0.0085$. in this the 4.9792 will correspond to 1/ masssys while the y-intercept, -0.0085, stands for the funknown /masssystem. both the theoretical and experimental model state that the acceleration of the system and the hanging mass have a direct relationship. there could be other forces like friction and air resistance that are counted as funknown. the mass of the system is shown throughout the experimental model when it is dividing either the fhanging or funknown. if the string was assumed to have a mass then the uniform acceleration of the cart will be affected. the acceleration will be affected because there is additional mass that is hanging which would add to the force. this then would make the force to be greater than the force of a massless string. thus causing the acceleration of the cart to increase due to the increase of the applied force. 

		there were plenty of errors that could have been present in this experiment. the systematic error for this experiment can be having a uncalibrated  scale and datastudio. this can cause inaccurate reading of the mass and velocity of the cart which would affect the acceleration calculated. another systematic error can be having a track isn’t horizontal straight and having a little friction on the track and air resistance. there would be increase in velocity than actual velocity if there was a slant on the track while it there was friction the velocity would be lower. we can check the level of the track to see if it is straight or not to reduce that error. there are also random errors. one of them is measuring the mass of the cart, and bobbers. this would affect the equation that is used to find the acceleration because the slope is 1/ masssystem and the y-intercept is funknown/ masssystem therefore if it was weighed more than it is supposed it would it would decrease the acceleration calculated. this is because you are diving the funknown and 1 by a bigger number causing it to smaller number.  while if it was less than the actual mass then the acceleration calculated would be more than the actual. this can be reduced by calibrating the scale and then taking multiple measurements to see if you get the same number for the mass. 

there are constraints in our experimental model which was that we are not able to identify and calculate all of the unknown forces that were external which could have a potentially impact on the acccerlateraton. the only force that was able to be calculated was the force that was exerted by the hanging mass. with that we were only giving a certain range of mass which could be used therefore we weren’t able to see the difference in acceleration of 2 significantly different masses. with that we can’t be totally sure for a fact that the track the cart went on was totally friction free. this then would affect the acceleration of the cart. 


