discussion and conclusion

	the research question that was being investigated in this lab was what impacts the period of a pendulum for a small swing? the three variables that were being tested were the angle of the swing release, the mass of the weight on the pendulum, and the length of the string.

 from our data, it can be concluded that there is no clear relationship between period and angle or period and weight. graph 1 shows almost a curve of the data going from the smallest angle having a low time, increasing in time to an angle of 12 degrees and then time decreases as the angle gets to 20 degrees. this shows no clear relationship between angle of release and period of a pendulum. in graph 2, the data also shows no clear relationship between period and weight of pendulum. the data alternates between a higher time and a lower time with each trial. however, graph 3 does depict a clear relationship between string length and the period of a pendulum. the data clearly shows that as the string length is increased, the period also increases, this is consistent through all of the data for these trials.

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ depicted in graph 4, our data fits a logarithmic curve for length versus period time. graph 1 shows a parabolic curve in our data between angle and period. graph 2 shows no mathematical relationship between weight and period. graph 3 shows a curve that is almost linear, showing a direct relationship between length and period. 

	some random errors that were present in our experiment include reaction time of the person using the stopwatch, the condition of the stopwatch itself, and inaccurate angle measurements for the release angle of the pendulum. using the photo gate eliminated the error involved with the stopwatch. to eliminate the other random errors, one could ensure one person measures the angle and uses the proper technique. some systematic errors involved in our experiment would be wear and tear on the weight set resulting in inaccurate measurements and the stopwatch running slow. these could be eliminated by ensuring the upkeep and condition of the equipment used for this experiment.

	constraints in this experiment that may have limited the generalizability of our results would be the condition of the equipment used throughout the experiment, it was not in the best of condition as they have experienced frequent use from the various groups and classes that utilize the same resources. another constraint in this experiment would be the experience of the group members performing the experiment. this was the first time group members performed this experiment and the techniques and knowledge utilized may have not been the most accurate or efficient. these constraints would impact the generalizability of our results.