conclusion:
the purpose of the lab is to determine if the acceleration of a system will change if more mass was added to the system itself.

When performing this experiment the graph in Figure 1 showed that as more force is applied to the system, the acceleration increases linearly. From Figure 1 a mathematical model was created using the forces that was applied on the system. The experimental model in this experiment given by the TA in lab was $a=C1 F_y+C2$. The model that was derived from Figure 1 in this experiment was $y=0.0051 x-0.0029$. This mathematical model shows that .0051 is the slope at which the cart is increasing by each time and the -0.0029 is the error that occurred in testing the acceleration of the system.  

       
These figures are findings from two other groups in lab that support the claim that acceleration is affected by force applied to the system.
Based on the results of other groups, it supports our group’s claim that as more force is 
applied to the system, the acceleration will be affected. The data from all groups presented in lab were all similar in a case where their graph was linear and their slope was in the same range as our group. Each group presented a chart of the applied force that was on the system as their x-axis and recorded the collected acceleration as their y-axis. 

The theoretical model that was presented in lab by the TA was $f=m_{sys} a$. The experimental model created from lab was $a=C1 F_y+C2$ where a is the acceleration, C1 is the slope, Fy is the number of forces applied, and C2 is the error. The experimental model that was formed from the data collected above in my lab group was $y=0.0051 x-0.0029$. Forces that may be present in the experimental context besides the hanging weight would be the mass of the cart itself and the error from friction between the track and the cart. The mass of the system shows up as x in the experimental model. A non-massless string connected to the cart and the hanging mass would affect the acceleration and cause the acceleration of the cart to decrease. The more mass the string is, the more work and force is needed to accelerate the car which will take the cart longer to accelerate because of the amount of force the car must exert to move with the heavy string weighing it down. 
 In this experiment random and systematic errors played a part in manipulating the results collected in lab. The random errors in this lab was not being able to accurately read and measure the masses of the bobbers and cart on a scale correctly. One way to reduce this random error is to have an electric scale that will display the overall mass. There were lots of systematic errors in this experiment such as friction, an unbalanced track, and air resistance. Ways to reduce friction is to add lubrication to the air track or even wheels to the cart to prevent the cart and the track from being in contact with each other. To reduce the unbalanced track in the future, the track should be placed on a balanced table and a measuring tool for balance can be used to see if the track is balanced from the beginning of the track to the end. To reduce air resistance in the future it would be more beneficial to reduce the size of the cart or surface area because the more larger the cart is, the more air resistance there is to stop the cart from accelerating forward.

 Constraints that might limit the collection of my results would be the equipment used. If an electric scale was used to measure the mass of the cart instead of a manual scale the results would be more accurate because manually measuring the cart would not be as accurate. Also if different bobbers were used it could affect the acceleration rate. 
