conclusion:
In this lab we wanted to determine what, if any, variables would affect the time it took for a small pendulum swing to make one period. We selected three variables to test; mass of the bob, length of the string attached to the bob, and the angle of release. We conducted this experiment over three separate labs, each one helping us to obtain a better understanding of our results. 
	In the first lab we collected the raw data that is shown above in the various charts and graphs. When looking just at the raw data collected in Tables 2, 4, and 6 we determined that each of the independent variables had an effect on the period. It appears that in Table 2, as we increased the mass of the bob that the time of the period also increased. In Table 4, we see that as we increased the length of the string the period again, increases. Lastly in Table 6, as the angle of drop decreased so did the time of the period. If we had stopped our experiment here we would have concluded that mass, length, and angle had impacted the period of small pendulum swings, but we had yet to account for error and uncertainty, which is what we focused on in the next part of our experiment. 
	To determine the uncertainty and error of our first results we thought about what could have manifested the error – whether it be systematic or random. We believe that a lot of the error in our results could be due to the random error within our measurement method. We used a stopwatch to time each period, because of human error our results would not be very precise. One way to deal with this error would be to take many more trials and average the results. There could have been some systematic error due to the set up of the experiment or the measuring tools we used, but I believe that our error is largely the result of random error due to our use of the stopwatches. In order to define our range of uncertainty we collected some base data, keeping the mass, length, and angle constant this time. Table 7 below, illustrates the results. 
		Using the data from Table 7 we concluded that our standard deviation would be ± 0.0602. We then used this value to add the error bars shown in each of the graphs above (Figure’s 1, 2, and 3). The error bars are currently showing two standard deviations from the measured results, which is the equivalency criterion for this experiment. However, even at one standard deviation our error bars still overlapped on all three graphs. From this we would discern that none of our independent variables had any effect on the dependent variable, the time of the period, thus proving our initial conclusions incorrect. 
	In our final stage of this experiment we took a second look at the variable length. Although our errors bars appeared have overlapped in our trial data (as shown in Figure 2), many other lab groups discovered that length did have an effect on the period. We believe that our initial results were greatly affected by the random error due to our stop watch, and the lack of more trial runs. Nonetheless, in our third effort we revised our experiment method to obtain more accurate results. In this run of the experiment we kept the mass and angle constant but used a range of length spanning one meter and ran 6 different trials. To resolve our random error, we utilized a photogate system, which allowed us to obtain more accurate data and eliminate most of our human related error. The following Tables, Table 8 and Table 9, represent our Experiment Design and Data Collection.
	Through the data in Table 9 and the graph in Figure 4 we get the equation that $T=0.306 l^{0.4169}$ where T is time and l is length. The theoretical model for the swing of a pendulum is      $T=2\pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$          . Even if we had designed a flawless experiment with little to no error, we would not have been able to achieve the theoretical model for a pendulum swing. This is because there is no variable that we could include to account for the acceleration due to gravity.
	In conclusion, the only variable that we tested that affected the period of a pendulum swing is the length of the string. The variables of mass and angle of release are obsolete in this experiment. This experiment proved to have a lot of room for random error, which limits the generalizability of it. Using the photogate helped eliminate some of the error by providing more accurate times for our data. However, there is still the possibility of human error in the measurement of the string length and the measurement of the angle given by the protractor. There is also a chance of systematic error based on the materials and set up that is used to conduct the experiment. As stated previously, we would still not be able to achieve the theoretical model even if these errors were not present. 