discussion

     the question being investigated in this lab is “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?” the question is answered by conducting various experiments, which including the mass of pendulum, the length of the string that attach to the pendulum, and the angle of release of the pendulum.

     the first variable being tested was the length of the string that attach to the pendulum. based on the data collected form table 1 and graph of the data in figure 1,  we saw that the period is increasing as the length increase and appears to be in liner correlation. the error bar did not overlap each other.

     the second variable being tested was the angle of release of the pendulum. based on the data collected in table 2 and graph of the data in figure 2, we saw that the change between each data is too small, the appears to be on the same straight line as well, and finally, the error bar overlapped each other.

     the third variable being tested was the mass of the pendulum. based on the data collected in table 3 and graph of the data from figure 3, we did not observe any significant change in time as the mass of the pendulum increasing. the error bar in figure 3 was overlapped between each other as well.

     after all three variables finished being tested, the length of the string had a impact on the period of the pendulum. but since the error bar of length vs. time graph did not overlap each other, we decided to further investigate with more accurate tools.

     from the data collected in table 4 and graph of the data from figure 4, we observed that the graph was not a straight line (linear), instead, it was power line. with that being said, he mathematical model should follow the equation $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. and the equation of the power line should be $y=2.006 x^{0.5}$. but the real equation of the line is $y=0.2894 x^{0.4294}$. the difference between the real equation of the line and the theoretical can be due to systematic and random error.the random error in the experiments were estimating the degree on protractor, or missed judge the full swing of pendulum. the systematic error include photogate system was faulty, or the length of string did not stay with the measured length. by doing multiple trials of the experiments and measuring the length of the string both before and after each trials, both can help eliminating errors as much as possible.


     the experiments was to determine if the angle of release of the pendulum, the length of the string attach to the pendulum, and the mass of pendulum have impact on the period of pendulum for a small swing. after collecting and graphing all the data from each variables and trials that were being tested, we came to a conclusion that only the length of the string has impact on the period of pendulum for a small swing. the conclusion was drawn after comparing all the tables and graph from above. in comparison of the equation of line we calculate based on the datas with the theoretical equation of the line, it was close and the differences can be attributed to systematic error and random errors. the limitation on the experiment are the size of the experiment and the the space provided. if there is more space provided, more data can be collected and be more visible as well. other other hand, by increasing the space of the experiment, we can also use wider range of variables to investigate our question.