discussion and conclusion



the purpose of this lab was to find the relationship between applied force and acceleration. in this experiment, the independent variable was the mass of the hanging weight, which acted as the force applied.  the claim that as the force of the hanging mass increased, the acceleration increased can be made. this can be seen in figure 1. the graph shows a direct linear relationship, supporting the claim. the error bars for the force applied are +/- .005 n. the small error value and lack of ability to see the error bars on the graph show accuracy in the data and further supports the claim. 

another group mathematical model, data, and experimental design were presented. the secondary data had the same experimental design, very similar data points, a mathematical model ($y=4.486 x + 0.023$ and error value (.009) which resembled the primary data collected.  this supports the primary results and conclusions by showing similar data. similar data shows the experimental process and calculations made afterward were done correctly. another set of data presented also supported the primary data collected. the second outside data set also supported the primary data set in the same way the first outside data set did. the second data set used the same experimental design, had very similar data points, had a decently similar mathematical model ($y=5.36 x+0.0436$), and had an identical error value (.005) as the primary data set. this also supports the primary data set because the results and conclusion were similar in both sets, which supports a correct process.

the correct theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by more than one force is $a=\frac{f_g}{m_{sys}}$. this equation supports the mathematical model, $y=4.1855 x+0.015$, because both the equations negate the force of friction acting on the system. because an air track was used to conduct this experiment, there was no use for friction to be accounted for in either the theoretical equation or the experimental mathematical model.

the correct enhanced theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by a single force is $a=\frac{f_g - f_f}{m_{sys}}$. this mostly supports the experimental mathematical model which is $y=4.1855 x+0.015$ because when derived, equals the same thing, but with a positive y-intercept. the y intercept in the experimental mathematical model is positive rather than a negative value, which is observed in the theoretical model. this difference between the two equations is because the theoretical equation accounts for friction, where as the experimental mathematical model doesn’t have to, meaning the y-intercept value would be added rather than subtracted to the equation. the air track used in the experiment used to create the mathematical model negates most of the friction that would normally need to be accounted for. for this reason the theoretical model only supports the mathematical model to an extent.

if a heavy string were to be used in this experiment, the rate of acceleration would increase more rapidly. this is due to the additional weight pulling the cart as the hanging mass gets length longer. this claim can be supported by the experiment conducted. it was found that as force (weight of hanging mass) increased, the rate of acceleration increased. therefore as more weight is being “added” to the hanging mass, the acceleration of the cart should also increase.

a random error that may be found in this experiment is that the bobs at the end of the cart could have dragged on the air track occasionally. if this random error were to occur, the acceleration value would be smaller than expected. this would be due to the friction acting on the system.  this error could be eliminated by adding the bobs to the side of the cart for each trial rather than the end. a systematic error that could be found in this experiment is that the string used to connect the cart and the hanging mass was bumpy. if this error were to occur, there would be an increased amount of friction acting on the pulley at the cart moved, causing all of the recorded acceleration values to be smaller than expected due to friction acting on the system. this systematic error could be avoided by checking that a smooth, possibly newly cut string was attached before the experiment began.

this lab was conducted in a university physics lab, and therefore had constraints as to what conclusions could be made and what could be tested. one could not test if a heavier string would, for sure, make a difference because such materials were not provided. also, seeing if string length would affect acceleration of the system could not be tested due to the limited space between the floor and pulley. lastly, although the air track limited friction, it was not completely absent. for this reason, a complete lack of friction and its effect on the system could not be tested.  because of these constraints, the generalizability of the claim “as force applied increases, acceleration increases” is limited. this claim can only be applied to situations where the setup fits within the limits of the experiment conducted in lab.