discussion and conclusion

	the experimental objective of labs 01, 02, and 03 was to determine the factor(s), if any, that have an impact on the period of a pendulum. there were three independent variables that were investigated throughout the labs is  the angle at which the pendulum was released, the mass of the pendulum, and the length of the string. after running all three experimental design plans, only one of the variables was found to have an effect on the period of the pendulum (string length). the other two factors seemed to have no influence (mass of pendulum and angle of release).

	in our first experiment, we investigated whether or not the length of the string had an impact on the time it takes a pendulum to complete one period. we used varying lengths of string to collect or data. from our data, we found that the length of the string does impact the period time, meaning that the length of one period increases as the length of the string increases (table 5 and figure 1). it is important to note that the first and last error bars do not overlap, confirming that there is a correlation between string length and period time (figure 1). this preliminary data helped us to confirm our prediction that string length had an impact on the time it takes for a pendulum to complete one period. in order to eliminate any errors experienced in the first run, a second experiment was conducted (lab 03) using a photogate to reduce the chance of random error when collecting time values. the results from this experiment are displayed in table 9 and figure 4. the results from this second trial further confirmed our conclusion that string length has a significant impact on the period of a pendulum. from our new graph, we found that this relationship between period and string length is a power relationship (figure 4). 

	our second experiment examined the impact of mass on the period of a pendulum. using varying masses, we collected some data (table 6). from our data, we found that there is no correlation between the mass of the pendulum and the time it takes to complete one period (figure 2). the error bars on the graph overlapped, indicating that the values were too similar to be deemed significantly different and have an influence on the period time.

	in our last experiment, we investigated the impact (if any) of the angle of release on the period of the pendulum. using varying angle sizes, we collected data (table 7). after graphing our data, we found that there was no correlation between the angle of release and the period of a pendulum (figure 3). the error bars on the graph overlap, indicating that the values were too similar to be deemed significantly different and have an influence on the period time.

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, where t is the period of oscillations, l is the length of the pendulum, and g is the acceleration of gravity. our data from the length of string experiment fits this model because it results in the same power graph as our data did (figure 4). once we added a power law trendline to our graph, the curve went through all the points (figure 4).

	although our experimental data produced an equation that fit the theoretical model very well, there were still some errors that came about throughout the lab. random errors included incorrect angles of release due to our hand moving slightly, reaction times when starting/stopping the timer, and errors when measuring the string length. possible systematic errors that we identified included the mass of the pendulum and added weights not being accurate to what they are labelled as, the timer buttons sticking, the balance not being calibrated correctly, and the protractor and measuring tape tick marks being off. in order to reduce these errors, more measurements were taken and an average of the results was used in order to reduce human error. also, a photogate sensor was used to collect a more accurate time value than the stopwatch provided. for future reference, in order to reduce errors, we should check all equipment before using it and take many trials so that the results can be averaged for less error.

	the only constraint experienced during these experiments was the amount of time we were given. the first lab especially was difficult to work with due to the introduction and exam that took place. as a result, we were only able to complete one experiment (string length vs. period) on the first day. the rest of our data was quickly collected during the second lab. due to the frantic data collection, our results may not be quite precise or accurate. however, our results still align with the theoretical mathematical model, so i think it is safe to generalize that string length affects the period of a pendulum.