discussion and conclusion



in these past three labs, the question to solve has been what affects the period of a pendulum in small swings, and the three labs worked together to come to an answer about what the affect is using collected data, graphing, uncertainties and mathematical models. in these labs it was asked what affects the period of a pendulum for small swings and it was determined that the length of the period is affected by the length of the string in the pendulum set up. the experiment with mass as the independent variable addresses the research question because the mass is being changed and the affect that it has on the period of the pendulum is recorded. it was determined that the mass does not affect the period of the pendulum. it was determined as this because a line can be drawn through the error bars for each point, meaning that there is no evidence that the mass affects the period of the pendulum. if you look at figure 2 it is apparent that there is no trend in the data that suggest the mass affects the period of the pendulum due to the error bars. the error bars are large and that makes the data support there being no effect on the pendulum swing when the mass is increased. the experiment that tested the effects of string length on the period of the pendulum is in table 3 and figure 3. changing the string length and testing its effect addresses the research question because it is a variable that can be altered while keeping the other variables constant in order to test the effect that it has upon the length of the period of a small swing. the data supports a relationship between increasing the length of string resulting in an increased period length. from the graph, it can be claimed that the string length affects the period of the pendulum. on the graph the error bars are tiny and no one straight line can be drawn through all error bars, showing that the string length does affect the period of the pendulum. on figure 3, the errors bars are present, but they are very tiny showing that there is a relationship between string length and period length of the pendulums swing. an increase in string length leads to an increase in period length and a decrease in string length leads to a decrease in period length of the pendulums swing. testing the effect of the angle of release on the period length addresses the research question because it is a variable that is able to be changed and could impact the period length, and it is able to be tested by leaving the other variable at a constant mass or length and then running the experiment. from this experiment it can be claimed that the angle of release does not affect the period length of a small swing. it can be claimed by looking at table 2 and more importantly figure 2, the graph of the data in the table. looking at the graph, it looks as if there could be a relationship between angle of release and the period length, but upon placing in error bars, it can be determined that there is no relationship. this can be determined because a straight line can be drawn that goes through the error bars of all the points of the graph. the error bars on this graph are not very big, but they also are not tiny. they show the room for error in the recording method used. for the data collected the correct theoretical equation is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, it can be converted to $y=2.007 x^{0.5}$ using algebraic properties. the model that was created using the experimental data is $y=2.0991 x^{0.4125}$, this was determined using figure 4 and using the excel features to place a best fit line on the graph. the lines chosen was taken from the best r2 value, which produced the equation $y=2.0991 x{0.4125}$. this equation is close to the theoretical equation, the value 2.0991 compared to the value of 2.007 in the theoretical equation. it is not perfect nor the exact number, but it is close, and shows that the relationship is real between the string length and the period of the pendulum. the number up to the power is also very close to the ½ or .5 power which also means the square root of something. again, the number is not perfect, but it is close to the theoretical equation of the relationship. in this lab there were random errors that occurred and could have been easily reduced such as the delay in reaction time of starting and stopping the stop watch, and consistency of angle of release. there was also the error of the weights not weighing exactly the 20g that was encrypted on the side of the weights. these errors could be reduced by weighing and marking each weight to know which one is which and how much they weight so when the experiment is run again the same weights could be used. the errors with reaction time and the stopwatch could be reduced by having the timer count down rather than having the person releasing the pendulum count down. this error was reduced in lab three, when the photogate was used in order to record period length. the error in consistent angle of release can be reduced by using two people to measure out the angle, one holding the string and releasing the string while the other person helps to line it up and look at it to make sure that the angle is exact. the angle of release error was also reduced when lab 2 and 3 were run, having two people set up the angle rather than just one person. constraints in this experiment that affect generalizability of the results are being unable to do larger angles than 30°, there is a chance that a larger angle could possibly make a longer period, but this lab was constrained to 30° or less. another constraint was the string length, the largest length was 2 meters or 200 centimeters, there is a chance that at some length, the swings period would stop increasing and just level out, and due to constraints of class it was impossible to test this. another constraint was time, it limited us to how many trials we were able to run of each factor as well as how many different angles, string lengths and masses we could have tested. these could affect the generalizability of the results because the results found in this lab may not hold true if the string length becomes larger or if the angle becomes larger. the time constraint could have led to more error due to rushing that caused larger error bars that necessary leading to not finding a trend in the data or a relationship between a factor and the period length of the pendulum. 


