discussion and conclusion

the objective of this lab was to determine what factors impacted the period of a pendulum for small swings. these factors were all investigated by use of a pendulum apparatus, tape measurer, stopwatch, protractor and photogate. 

in the first experiment, the three factors of mass, angle of release and string length were all tested for their impacts on pendulum period. the first investigated factor, mass, was not shown to have any relationship with regard to period of the pendulum (table 4). as seen in figure 1, the data points lie all over the graph. based off of these results, we concluded that mass did not show an impact on the period of the pendulum. the next factor investigated for the first lab was the angle of release. it appeared as though there was a relation between the angle of release and period of the pendulum (figure 2). it showed loosely that as the angle at which the pendulum was released became larger, the period of the pendulum became smaller. the last factor investigated in the first experiment was string length. these results showed a very linear relationship in the middle three trials, yet the first and last data points did not follow this trend (figure 3). it was concluded that it was very possible that a trend existed here, therefore further testing should be carried out. 

in the second experiment, ten trials were run with a pendulum set up without changing the mass, length, or angle for each trial. this was conducted in order to determine the amount of uncertainty that existed in human stopwatch keeping. the result of these trials showed that the standard error in the measurements taken with the hand held stopwatch was +/- .010 seconds (figure 4). this result indicated that human error played a role in the accurateness of data collection, therefore, another tool should be used before solid claims were made about the period of the pendulum.
in the third experiment, the factors of angle of release and string length were measured once again, but measured with a photogate device in order to reduce errors and increase accuracy. these two factors were selected to be tested again due to the conclusions of the first experiment. the results for angle of release differed greatly from the first experiment. as the angle changed, the period of the pendulum differed very slightly (table 7). when graphed, the changes in time between each angle change was almost negligible, showing a horizontal, constant line across the graph (figure 5). based off of those results, it was concluded that the period of the pendulum was not affected by the angle of release. conversely, the results of the string length appeared to show a relationship. as the string length increased, the period of the pendulum increased as well (table 8). when graphed, it was shown that a positive relationship was seen string length and period of the pendulum (figure 6). 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is (russell, 2004). when reconfigured, this equation is equal $t=1.0 x$. the data collected for string length and period of a pendulum resulted in the experimental model power function $t=0.1228602 x$. the observed equations show a very similar value for the exponent in each formula. with the theoretical exponent being 0.5, and the experimental exponent being 0.4222, it is able to be concluded that the data matches the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum. a clear curve is seen on the graph which displays the power equation calculated from the collected data (figure 6). the theoretical model did not hold true for the factors of mass and angle. for mass, no experimental model could be created because there was no relationship seen between mass and period of pendulum (figure 1). for angle of release, no experimental model could be created because the results were a constant, horizontal line (figure 5).

many errors, both systematic and random were present in this lab. for example, systematic errors encountered in this lab would include scale error. the mass of the individual pendulum weights were explicitly stated. when measured on the scale, the mass did not match the mass shown on the individual weights. this systematic error could be reduced by recalibrating the scale. another systematic error encountered during this may have resulted from an improperly functioning stopwatch. the stopwatches were outdated, and it is possible that they were not stopping when the stop button pushed. a way to correct this error would be to get new stopwatches that have been checked for proper functioning. there were multiple random errors throughout this lab. before the photogate was used, there was difficulty in determining where the pendulum would finish its entire period. this resulted in measurement errors in timekeeping. this error was corrected by using the photogate device. another random error would have been measuring the angle on the protractor inconsistently. a way to fix this error would be to take more care in measuring. it is also possible that errors of string measurement were present. a way to correct this error, along with many random errors, would be to take the measurements multiple times and average them out. lastly, having one person measure the same variable for each trial would keep the measurements consistent and reduce the random error as well.

the constraints in these experiments would include mass and string length. the minimum mass available was 50 grams, and the maximum mass available was limited to 250 grams. string length was limited to the height of the room and height of the pendulum apparatus provided. 
