discussion and conclusions

the research question for this section of labs asks “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?”. the experiment determining whether pendulum angle had an impact on period  addresses the research question. we chose three different angles and timed out the time it took for ten swings; then, we divided this time by ten to retrieve the time for each individual period (table 1). our data allowed us to conclude that the pendulum angle did not have an effect on period since our graph had a slope of 0.001 with a visibly flat line (figure 1). this slope is relatively close to a slope of 0 indicating no change in period as the pendulum angle was altered. the experiment determining whether pendulum mass had an impact on period addresses the research question. we chose three different pendulum masses and timed out ten swings; then, we divided this time by ten to retrieve the time for each individual period (table 2). our data allowed us to conclude that the pendulum mass did not have an effect on period since our graph for this experiment had a slope of 0.0003 with a visibly flat line (figure 2). this slope is relatively close to 0 which indicates no change in period as the pendulum’s mass was altered. the experiment determining whether string length had an impact on period addresses the research question. we chose three different string lengths and timed out the time it took for ten swings; then, we divided this time by ten to retrieve the time for each individual period (table 3). our data allowed us to conclude that the string length did have an effect on period since our graph for this experiment had a slope of 0.015 with a line that slanted (figure 3). the positively slanted line indicates a positive correlation of string length and period, so as the string length increased, the length of time per period also increased.  

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is   ; t being length of time for period, l being string length, and g being acceleration due to gravity. looking at our data in table 4 and figure 4, our data and equation, computed by excel, from the graph does fit the theoretical model equation. the equation given in figure 4 is similar to that of the previously stated theoretical equation manipulated. the theoretical equation manipulated yields           which can be further reduced to  when we account for the acceleration of gravity being 9.8. our equation is similar to this one being (figure 4). looking at the factors that did not have effect on the period length, pendulum mass and pendulum angle, one can see that these variables are not included in the theoretical model, so it makes sense that they have no effect on the pendulum time since they are not accounted for in this equation. 

possible error that may have been present during experimentation include timing error, air resistance effects, and measuring error. timing error is created when the person timing and does not start the timer exactly when the pendulum is let go or does not stop the timer exactly as the pendulum swings its 10th swing. this error is a random error, and could be reduced by doing multiple trials and/or having the same person do the timing, let go of the pendulum, and count the swings. air resistance effects could slow the pendulum faster than without air resistance. this error is a systematic error and could be reduced by performing the experiment in a vacuum. finally, measuring error may be seen with an insufficient measuring device, a person who observed an inaccurate measurement, or multiple people taking measurements affecting the angle and way the measurement is taken. measuring error is reduced when the same person is taking the measurements and when using more accurate measuring devices. 

some constraints present in the experiment that may have affected our results include air resistance, only one possible apparatus, and limited time. air resistance was inevitable and may have affected the results. having access to a vacuum chamber may have reduced the air resistance then increasing the accuracy of the experiment. the only apparatus available constrained the experiment in that it was relatively unstable, so having a better more stable apparatus may increase the accuracy of the results. finally, the labs were limited in time. we were unable to perform multiple trials because of the constraint of time in lab. increased amounts of trials may have increased the accuracy of our results.