discussion and conclusion: 



	the purpose for the experiment was to determine if the acceleration of a system changes when the applied force is either increased or decreased. the mathematical model was  or rewritten for this experiment to be . the equation demonstrates mathematically that when the independent variable is increased, then the dependent variable is also increased. in addition, graph 1 illustrates the mathematical model graphically, and visually supports the mathematical equation is correct and therefore the hypothesis is correct. it can be confirmed that the equation demonstrated accurate data due to the small variance showed in table 2 and the small error bars illustrated on graph 1. overall, there is a relationship of increased hanging mass creating a higher acceleration. 
	the comparison between the two outside sources and the data collected by our lab group show similar data. the best fit line from outside source 1 was closer to our calculated best fit line, however the outside source 2 demonstrates a best fit line that is also in close range to ours. overall, this portrays that the outside source 1 and 2 and our experimental mathematical model equation are all similar due to all three of the groups performing an accurate experiment and completing correct equations. 

	the theoretical model equation is equaled to , which for our lab group was 5.4n. the number 0.185 comes from the mass of the system being 0.185kg. this equation illustrates the external force in a mathematical form, which equaled the 5.4 n.  this was then put into the experimental mathematical model of $a=c1 w+c2$, and adding c1 resulted in the equation $y=5.4x+c2$ for our lab group. however, was given to our group by taking -0.0313 from our equation off of graph 1. therefore, the final experimental mathematical model was $y=5.4 x -0.0313$, which was in close range to outside source 1 and 2’s model. in addition, , and this is because the equation $-0.0313=f_{ext} c1$ when solved algebraically gives the exiting force as 0.0058 n. to account for the air resistance, the y-intercept of the equation from graph 1 divided by the mass of the system is the unknown force which accounts for the friction and air resistance. however, the car was pushed forward with air and that minimized the amount of friction that was occurring. 

	the error bars that were made on graph 1 and showed in our raw data in table 2 have a minimum value. however, there were factors that could of skewed our data. there were two factors that could have disturbed the data and these could have been the weighing techniques, and tools for creating the hanging mass. a more precise way of calculating the hanging mass could have reduced the impact of the error or uncertainties. overall, even with the small error bars shown in graph 1, it can be concluded that if the hanging mass was increase, then there will be a higher acceleration.