discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of the pendulum lab was to examine the variable(s) that impact the period length of a pendulum for small swings. for the first week a preliminary exercise was conducted in order to determine if there was any effect on the period of a pendulum given certain independent variables (length, angle, and weight). when conducting the experiment the first week, length of the string had an apparent effect on the length of the period. there appeared to be a positive correlation between the length of the string and the period length. to determine if the difference in the data points was significant, in week two a standard deviation was calculated. this standard deviation (created by doing 10 consistent trials) was then used to determine the error bars applied to the graphs. when looking at the graph for period versus length (graph 4) the error bars clearly don’t overlap showing a significant change. when conducting the same procedure but with different angles there appeared to be a positive correlation between the angle of release and the period of the pendulum. when applying the error bars the second week the error bars did not overlap. therefore, we thought that the angle of release had an effect on the period (which later we determined did not). finally we repeated the procedure testing changes in the weight of the pendulum. when graphing the values no correlation seemed to appear. when applying the error bars from the standard deviation certain bars would overlap. also, the equivalency criterion of +/- 2σ was used to further determine if two values were equivalent. 
	from our findings in week one and two it was determined that the weight had no effect on the length of the pendulum. we felt confident that the length of the string had an effect on the period of the pendulum, and were still uncertain about the angle having an effect. in the third week human error was decreased by using a photogate in order to get more precise measurements for the period. it was determined that the angle of release had no effect. although the numbers appear to increase, when the error bars are applied there is clear overlap. this shows that the values were not significantly different to one another. when this was done for the length of the string it was clear that the length of the period was affected. even with using more accurate measurements, the error bars that were applied had no overlap. even when using the equivalency criterion there was no overlap in values either. therefore, the change in period length due to the length of the string was the only independent variable that provided significant data.
	since the length of the string was found to be the only variable that effects period length two graphs were created to find the best fit equation. a linear fit was first attempted and then an exponential fit was done. the exponential fit was nearly perfect with an r2 value of 0.9938 in comparison to the linear fit which only had an r2 value of 0.9833. the theoretical mathematical model for a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. l is the length of the pendulum and g is the force of gravity. when adjusting the formula the equation $t = 2.007 l^{1/2}$. in comparison to the formula that we obtained the exponent was 0.393 and the constant was 0.337. the exponent was more accurate but the constant was fairly off. 
	there were a few errors that could account for the fact that our measurements weren’t exact. to begin, human error played a large part in why our measurements may not have been consistent. when measuring the length of a pendulum it is subjective to the person as to what they view as a complete period. also, when one person is releasing the pendulum the other is not going to start the timer exactly to when this occurs increasing random error. another random error could have occurred from simply not measuring the angle of release and the length of the string accurately. another error that occurred was that when we dropped the pendulum at different angles, at some point the pendulum would free fall because the angle was above 90 degrees and that could’ve led to inaccurate measurements. a final source of random error could have been the fact that the person releasing the pendulum could’ve unknowingly applied a force to it causing the pendulum to swing faster than expected. a few systematic errors that could have occurred was due to the fact that the stop watches may have lagged a bit causing an underestimation of time for the period to occur. another systematic error was the fact that the mass of the pendulum when measured wasn’t exactly 50g and the weights added weren’t exactly 20g each. weight should not play a role in the length of the period but it’s still something to note. also, the actual balance to measure the weights may not have been fully accurate as well. the protractor could only be measured to a certain accuracy and the same error applies to the tape measure. to fix the random errors we attempted to not only take the time using the stop watch but a phone timer as well. we also had people stand and look at the pendulum from the same angle. the same person always let go of the pendulum and counted down at the same pace each time so that the other people could know when to start timing. systemic errors are more difficult to detect and remedy, but for the third experiment we were given a photogate which would help to minimize the human error. we compared with other members of the class what their results were to determine if our values were similar. that way we could determine if our system was precise but not accurate. also, in the first week we only took 5 measurements and in the final week we took seven to help increase accuracy. fortunately our data was consistent and fairly accurate so the photogate helped to reduce majority of the errors.