
discussion: 
the purpose of this lab was to determine the acceleration of a cart as the hanging mass across a pulley changed in a frictionless environment. this was accomplished by gradually increasing the weight that was hanging from the cart across the pulley while keeping the overall mass of the system constant. the way that this experiment answers the question is by testing the acceleration over 8 different hanging masses and using this data to create a model. this model is then compared to the accepted physical equation and we can determine how accurate the experiment was. the hanging mass clearly affects the acceleration as shown in figure 1 because as the mass increases we see a stark trend line with a high r squared value and no overlapping error bars. 

these other groups have approximately the same graph as us and similar equations. any deviation from ours can be attributed to slight deviations in measurement, mass of the system, or the track itself. the experimental model is not perfect due to the nature of running an experiment, but it does compare well with the theoretical model of 1/(system mass)*f(applied)-(unknown mass)/mass of the system. this model has been broken down to be easier to compare to our lab results which gave us the equation $a=0.0516 f - 0.071$. these models are similar, but the mathematical model has some unknown forces that are not accounted for in the theoretical. this is because the theoretical model ignores friction in the pulley, mass of the string, and possible deviations from perfection in the track. our models compare well when all the calculations are accounted for, but this unknown force does make things less accurate. possible forces that would affect the experiment that are not accounted for are the mass of the string, excess friction on the track, or possible issues or break on the pulley. these would all show up in the x intercept that we see in this model and were all grouped together under the heading of “unknown force”. under the experimental model the overall mass of the system is the denominator of the entire equation, meaning that the entire model has already been divided by the mass of the system. if the string isn’t assumed to be massless or at least deemed negligible then that means that as the cart moves down the track the hanging mass increases and the acceleration wouldn’t be constant. this issue could cause the acceleration to fluctuate as it moves and lead to a higher average than predicted in the equation. possible sources of error in the experiment would be breaks in the air flow/face of the track leading to excess friction, possible issues with the photogate meaning that the acceleration that we got from it is off by some factor, or we may have released the cart too soon after turning on the air so it wasn’t totally frictionless at start. all of these are corrected by running numerous trials and ensuring that each on was as consistent as possible across trials. this experiment was run with one sled on one track and the string definitely has mass. these constraints make it more difficult to expand our results out to other places because we haven’t run the experiment under enough different conditions to create a truly comprehensive model.