discussion and conclusion:

in this lab, we set out to find what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings. firstly, we had to hypothesize what aspects of a simple pendulum could be changed that may have an effect on the period of the pendulum. the length of the pendulum, angle of release, and the mass of the pendulum were characteristics that were to be tested. 

	we first tested the angle of release. during this test we released the pendulum by hand and measured the elapsed time with a stopwatch. in our data we did notice a trend. as seen in figure 1, there is a noticeable slope in both the line of best fit and our data points. some of the error bars do overlap, indicating the possibility for no change in period. however, not all error bars are overlapping. because of their small size as the time for a period increases, we know that the time of the period increases with the angle. to ensure that this increase is large enough to represent a significant change in time, compare it to figure 3 (mass vs period). figure three shows heavily overlapping error bars and a change in time that is quite small, approximately +0.04s. given that changing the angle of release caused an increase of over 0.6 seconds, it is clear that increasing the angle of release of the pendulum has a positive impact on the period. although it did have an effect on the period, it was later determined that angle of release does not have as significant of an impact as the length of the pendulum. 

	in the next experiment we tested how the length of the pendulum impacted the period of the pendulum. throughout the lab this variable was tested in two different ways. first, the time to complete five swings was tested by releasing the pendulum by hand and measuring the time with a stopwatch. there is a trend in the first data set (see figure 2). while there are overlapping error bars next to each other, when looking at multiple data points the error bars do not overlap and show a consistent increase in the time for five swings. shown in figure 2, the time for the period of the pendulum increased by over 1.5 seconds. to understand that this time increase is significant it can be compared to the time increase represented in figure 3 (mass vs time). as we tested increasing mass, the time for the period increased by only 0.04 seconds. given the large overlapping error bars for this graph it was concluded that there was no change in the period. because the time change was so much greater in experiment 2, there is a significant time increase. the length was tested a second time with more precision using a photogate to measure the time of the period. as seen in figure 4, there was a clear increase in the time as there were no overlapping error bars throughout the graph and it increased by 1.9 seconds. this both confirms our prediction that the time for the period would increase, and proves that the length of the pendulum is related to the time for a period. we determined that this was the most significant way to affect the period of the pendulum, which will later be described using the theoretical equation of a simple pendulum. 

	in the third experiment, how the mass of the pendulum impacted the time of the period was tested. this was tested by releasing the pendulum by hand and measuring the time with a stopwatch for varying weights of the pendulum. looking at figure 3, it shows a couple sets of large overlapping error bars and a best fit line that is near horizontal. throughout the entire data set it only shows a time increase of +0.04 seconds. because of the overlapping error bars it can be concluded that there is no, or insignificantly small, change in time for the period of the pendulum as the mass of the pendulum was changed. this tested the hypothesis of experiment three and proved our prediction that mass of the pendulum and period are not related. this is also proved by the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum as shown next.

	the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is . in this equation l is the length and g is force of gravity. it was concluded previously that the factor that had the greatest impact of the period was the pendulum length. this characteristic is supported by the equation because pendulum length is the only variable that we tested that is represented in the equation. because the angle of release and mass of the pendulum are not included, those factors must not have an impact on the period of the pendulum, our experimental findings also support that claim. the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is a square root function. we know that our experimental data fits the theoretical equation because our line of best fit (for figure 4) is also a square root function. 

	there were many different causes of error that were identified in the experiments conducted. because of the timing technique, our first three experiments were vulnerable to random error. random error likely occurred due to the following occurrences. starting or stopping the stopwatch early or late, pendulum released from the incorrect angle, releasing the pendulum early or late. these random errors could affect the data in either the positive or negative direction. there are two ways to reduce random error. firstly, more data can be taken. random error can be observed by taking more data, then reduced by taking the average of the data to find your mean value. the second way to reduce random error is to reduce the amount of human involvement. to reduce the human involvement in this experiment, experiment 2 was conducted again using a photogate to measure the time. this enabled a machine to both start and stop the timer for one period. it decreased the size of our error bars as seen in figure 4 compared to our large, overlapping error bars in figure 2. there were two sources of experimental error identified. if the tape measure or stopwatch used were out of calibration, it could have shifted our data left or right from the true value. to make sure that this isn’t the case, a more accurate ruler or stopwatch could be used. 

	there are some constraints in this experiment that could have a negative affect on the experiments generalizability. when we were testing the change in the angle, we made our angles too steep. the reason that we got the angle of release to be so significant is because we were no longer testing a small swing pendulum. another limit is using a stopwatch. timing skill needed to release the pendulum perfectly and stop it at precisely the correct time is difficult for humans to reach. our data could be more generalizable if we had used a photogate for all three trials.