discussion and conclusion 

	for lab sessions 01-03, the general research question being addressed, what impacts the period of a pendulum?, was further refined to investigate specific variables which were predicted to affect or not affect the period of the pendulum. these specific variables investigated include mass, angle of release, and string length. these variables each served as an independent variable while the period served as the dependent variable. mass as the independent variable vs period as the dependent variable was shown in section i of graphs and figures. angle of release as the independent variable vs period as the dependent variable was shown in section ii of graphs and figures. string length as the independent variable vs period as the dependent variable was shown in section iii of graphs and figures. string length as the independent variable vs period as the dependent variable was shown in section iv of graphs and figures. section iii and iv investigated the same independent variable, however, the method of measuring the period differed. in section iii, the period was measured by hand with a stopwatch. in contrast, section iv used a photogate to measure the period. 

	according to the data in section 1, it is concluded that mass of the bob (the weight added on the end of the string) does not affect the period of the pendulum. this conclusion matched the original hypothesis that the mass of the weight on the pendulum will not affect the period of the pendulum. 	the outcome also aligned with our prediction that stated if the mass is increased the period will not change and if the mass is decreased the period will also not change. the conclusion that mass does not have an affect on the period was reached by observing the error bars as seen in figure 1. the error bars from one data point to another overlap each other to a great extent. this shows that as the independent variable changes, the dependent variable stays relatively around the same value. thus, there is no evident relationship between the mass of the pendulum and the period of the pendulum. 

	according to the data in section ii, it appears that there is a relationship between the angle of release and the period. however this relationship is not clearly supported as figure 2 shows a set of data that appears to be linear but is not completely so. this is because the data points do not form a completely straight line as a few points deviate from this trend. i also recall from high school physics that only string length affects the period. therefore, there must be a reason why the data somewhat mimicked a relationship between the independent and dependent variable. this could have also been caused since the range of angles tested was rather larger(ranging from 45 degrees to 85 degrees). this faux linear relationship can most likely be attributed to random error during the process of the experiment. the source of this random error most likely came from using the handheld stopwatch. the stopwatch may have been started too early, stopped later than it should have, etc. 

	according to the data in section iii, it appears that there is a clear relationship between the string length and the period of the pendulum. by looking at figure 3, it is apparent that as the string length increases, the period consequently increases as well. while looking at the figure it is also obvious that the error bars do not overlap. this shows that the dependent variable does in fact change as the independent variable changes instead of just staying the same as seen in section 1. in conclusion, the data supported the original hypothesis and prediction. 

	the data in section iv served to prove that our conclusion from section iii was in fact true. section iv utilized a photogate to measure the period of the pendulum. this was a crucial aspect as the use of the photogate served to minimize and rid of random error that may have been present in section iii data that was taken by hand with a stopwatch. the data supported the conclusion that string length does affect the period of the pendulum. as seen in figure 4, the relationship between the string length and period follows that of a power rule function. this is evident by the best fit line equation labeled on figure 4. in addition, the error bars do not overlap at all, serving to further clarify that there is in fact a relationship between string length and the period. 

	as mentioned in the previous paragraph, the relationship between string length and the period of the pendulum models that of a power rule function. this was concluded by finding the best fit line that matched the data from table 4 the best. the equation of the resulting best fit line was $y=0.79$. the ‘y’ represents the time for one period and the ‘x’  represents the scientifically accepted mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is  $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. in this equation ‘t’ represents the time for one period to be completed, the ‘g’ represents gravity(-9.81m/, and the ‘l’ represents the string length. to compare the two equations, a sample calculation can be completed to see if the answers are similar. in lab 03 this was done by plugging 0.50 m in as the string length and seeing what the resulting period would be for both equations. by using the equation generated from the best fit line from figure 4, the time for one period was found to be  1.409 seconds. by using the scientifically accepted mathematical model, or called the theoretical model, the time for one period was found to be 1.418 seconds. these two numbers are very similar, differing by only 0.009 of a second. this serves to support the theoretical model as well as the conclusion that the string length does affect the period of the pendulum. 

 	the main source of random error came from using a handheld stopwatch to measure the time for one period. the uncertainty for this method was found to be .0175 seconds. this is far greater than the uncertainty of a photogate which is .0001 seconds. this difference in uncertainty is definitely caused by random error. this random error could have occurred from starting the stopwatch before the pendulum was even released, stopping the stopwatch too soon, not stopping the stopwatch when the appropriate angle was reached, etc. the random error was attempted to be minimized as our group let the pendulum complete 5 periods before stopping the stopwatch. one period often occurs in such a fast time frame that stopping the stopwatch at the right moment is a complicated task. by letting it complete 5 periods, the team member managing the stopwatch has more time in between starting it and stopping it. thus by dividing the total time by 5, random error is decreased. in addition, random error could have been minimized to a much greater extent if more trials were run for each independent variable. for our experiment, no source of systematic error was evident. some things that could have possibly caused a systematic error include using a stretched out measuring tape or using a photogate that does not work properly.

a major constraint within this experiment was the number of trials completed. due to the limit of time, a relatively low amount of trials were completed for each experiment. if more trials were completed, then the number of data points collected would have been higher. by having more data points, random error could have been minimized to a greater extent. another constraint in the experiment was the size of the apparatus itself. in the lab room, we could only conduct small scale experiments. thus, the ranges of the tested variables were consequently more narrow than a larger scale experiment would have. for example, the length of the sting obviously could not exceed the height of the ceiling. another constraint could be the lab equipment available for use. there may be some more precise/accurate equipment that exists that could consequently make the collected data more precise or accurate. 

	`