discussion and conclusion

the experiments objectives were to determine what variables (string length, mass, and release angle) can impact the period of a pendulum for small swings. in the first lab we preformed three different experiments. the first being mass vs. time trials using a stopwatch to see if there is a relationship between the mass of the pendulum and the time it takes to perform a period. the results of these trials concluded that there is no relationship between mass and period of pendulum because the graphed points do not show any correlation, so we do not have to repeat a second trial using the photogate have more precise and accurate time measurements (figure 6). when performing the second trial, string length vs. time using the stopwatch, we got data that looked like there might be a correlation, but we just might have mistimed one of the trials (figure 4). taking the information from the graph we decided that string length variable did in fact need to be repeated using the photogate, so we can have a more precise and accurate measurement to see if there is a correlation. for the trial involving release angle vs. time using the stopwatch, the results were inconclusive because it looked as if there could be a correlation between release angle and time due to three trials having the appearance of correlation and the other two not. with this data we had to perform another trial with using the photogate to decide if release angle impacts the time of a period (figure 5). 

during the second session we performed an experiment that had the mass, string length, and release angle all constant. this allowed us to determine the uncertainty of the stopwatch. the results of these trials show that there is a standard error of +/- 0.10 seconds when using the stopwatches error due to human blunder (figure 2). the uncertainty can be changed if a more accurate and precise device was used to lower standard error and yield greater results.

during the last lab session, the experiment performed tested the string length vs time and also the release angle vs. time using a photogate. these two variables were being tested again since the results of these were unclear using a stopwatch. by using a photogate compared to a stop watch this allows the uncertainty to be +/- 0.001 seconds compared to the stopwatches +/- 0.01 seconds (figure 3). after running the trial for the release angle vs. time the data points differed slightly no matter the change in angle. the result show that there is an insignificant difference in time that it took to perform a period which gives a constant horizontal line showing that there is no correlation between release angle and time, so as the release angle is increased or decreases the period of a pendulum will still be insignificantly different (figure 2). for string length vs. time, the results differed from the earlier trial. they show a positive relationship that fits the line of best fit perfectly, proving that as the string length increases the period of the pendulum will increase, and as string length decreases the pendulum period decreases as well (figure 1).  after looking at all of the trials and experiments the only variable that has an effect on the period of a pendulum is going to be the length of string used for the pendulum (figure 1). 

the theoretical mathematical model for a period of a pendulum is  (russel 2004)  the derived equivalent of this equation is $t=1.0 x$. when comparing this theoretical model to the experimental power function we obtained from the the string length vs. time $t=0.1228602 x$ there is a similarity between the exponents in each. with the experimental exponential value being close to the theoretical value you can see there is a curve in our data that matches the theoretical, which proves the data matches (figure 1). for release angle vs. time the data does not match the theoretical because the data was a horizontal line with no slope, which does not match the power function of the theoretical. for mass vs. time there was no correlation between mass and pendulum period, so this would not fit the theoretical model. 

errors in this experiment were found both from systematic and also random errors. the first error noticed was systematic, we measured the mass of each individual weight on the scale and the mass listed on the weight was different than the scales listed mass. recalibrating the scale or purchasing a new scale that is calibrated correctly can reduce encountered errors giving better data. a random error that took place was when we measured the string length using the tape measure, not every measurement was exact due to human error. another random error is timing with the stopwatch compared to photogate because this relies on human reaction time instead of having an instrument with a sensor that is exact which reduces error. we also had two different people measuring string length which did not keep the measurements consistent so that increases the random error during the experiment. 

there were two constraints for this lab they included string length which was limited to the height of the pendulum apparatus and then the room height. the mass was also constrained because we were only given 250 g to attach to the pendulum with the lowest possible mass being a weight that has a mass of 50 g. 





