discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this experiment was to identify the variables that relate to or affect the period of a small pendulum. in week one of the experiment, students tested out multiple independent variables is  the angle of release, the mass of the weight, and the length of the string. students were able to determine that the only independent variable that is related to the dependent variable is the length of the string, as seen in table and figure 3. the error bars do not overlap according to the equivalency criterion, so the period of the pendulum did increase as the length of the string increased. the error plotted on figures 1 and 2 was equal to +/-2σ. figures 1 and 2 had overlapping error bars, and due to the equivalency criterion, all the values could be equivalent. in week two of the experiment, students generated table 4, while keeping all the variables controlled, in order to determine the standard deviation for the data sets. this standard deviation was then used to calculate the error and uncertainty of the data in tables and figures 1 and 2. in week three of the experiment, students measured the period of the pendulum versus the length of string once again, using a much more precise measuring tool of time, as shown in table 5. the error for these data sets was only +/-.001s due to uncertainty in the measuring tool, as seen in figure 4. once, again, the error bars did not overlap at +/-2σ, so due to the equivalency criterion, the time of the period changed as the length of string changes.

the theoretical mathematical model was $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ where g is  980 cm/s^2 and l is the length of the string. the curve that best fit the data in table 5, and graphed in figure 4, was a power curve, with an expression of        $y=0.2671 x^{0.4458}$          . these values are very similar to the ones in the theoretical model, therefore, the claim can be made that a full model was able to be created through these experiments. the mass of the weight and the angle of released are not included in the expression or the theoretical model. this model fits with students’ previous findings, as those variables had no affect on the period of the pendulum, as seen in tables and figures 1 and 2.

the errors present were mostly random. when eyeballing the time of the period with a stopwatch, times either could have been above or below the actual time. the masses of the weights measured could have had systematic error, as the balance was not calibrated before performing the experiment. the length of the string could have had random error or systematic error, as the measuring tape only had certainty to +/-.01, and it was not calibrated or tested against other measuring tapes prior to performing the experiment. to decrease these errors, a photogate was used to calculate the average time of the period for each trial that was confidant up to +/-.001s. to minimize the other errors, the balance and tape measure could have been calibrated, or tools with greater confidence values that measure greater significant figures also could have been used.

the main constraint of this model is that the relationship only exists for small pendulums. if the angle exceeds more than +/-15º off of vertical, then the angle begins to affect the length of the period, and the model is no longer accurate.



