discussion



	the purpose of the labs shown in this report were to differ the mass distribution of a system and examine its effect on acceleration of that system. the hanging mass as the independent variable was manipulated to determine the different accelerations of the system based on those manipulations. with the data from the graph, labeled as figure 1, was made from the experiment in lab 5, it was concluded that the heavier the hanging mass then the greater acceleration of the system. the data on the graph that was used to come to this conclusion has error bars, but even considering the error the general trend and conclusion still hold true (figure 1). 

the overall formulas from our group and the other two present the same concept; as the mass on the end of the string increases, then the acceleration will also increase. both the other groups’ data agrees with the claim made by our group from the experiment. the fext calculated for our value and group one are similar, but the fext value in group two was negative. though, again, the results overall of both groups agrees with our claim. 

	the theoretical model for this experiment is $y = c1 x  + c2$. our experimental model for this experiment is $y = 5.0372 x  - 0.0374$ (figure 1). external forces that may have been acting on the system during the experiment include friction and air resistance. they show up in the experimental model via the equation $\frac{c2}{c1} = f_{ext}$ to value at 0.007425n for our system. the mass of the system is the reciprocal of the c1 value, so $\frac{1}{m_sys} = c1$. 

a non-massless string with a hanging mass may affect the uniform acceleration of the cart because this would be more susceptible to friction due to a non-negligible mass. a non-massless string would also add to the weight of the hanging mass as the sled came further down the track; this could possibly create an increasing acceleration and not a uniform acceleration as seen with a massless string. 

	an error present includes a systematic error via the balance scale used; the scale may have been inadequate to produce the most accurate measurements, and it may have also not been calibrated correctly which could lead to systematic error. another error includes random error; this may be from not starting the computer system at the exact time of release, random error with equipment, slight changes in air resistance during the experiment. one can reduce systematic error by utilizing more accurate equipment or correct and careful calibration, and random error can be reduced by trying to control the environment as much as possible (least amount of air resistance, better quality equipment, and better techniques for letting the sled go at the moment to start analyzing).

 some constraints of the experiment include limited amount of time and limited equipment. constraint on time limits the generalizability of our results because not enough time does not allow for vast amount of data collection; we are limited to the class period to take data, so more time would lead to more data allowing our results to be more generalized. better equipment could improve results by giving more accurate data; our most limiting piece of equipment for this lab was the balance.