discussion and conclusion

this lab explored the relationship between the acceleration of an object and the force applied to it. a system of a constant mass and with as little friction was set up to explore this relationship. the mass of the system was held constant, but the applied force was changed. this was accomplished by moving mass from the end of the string attached to the cart to the cart itself.  the data recorded yielded the above graph (graph 1) and a mathematical model for the relationship between the two variables is  $y=3.9206 x + 0.1413$. other groups produced mathematical models with some similarities and differences. one group obtained a model of $y=5.139 x - 236.106$. the y intercept is similar the one obtained from the data in this experiment. in theory, the y intercept of this experiment should be zero because the system should start at rest, but the air coming from the track applies a force to the cart and gives it some initial acceleration. this acceleration is shown in the y intercept. the other group obtained the equation $y=5.0147 x - 64.1724$. their initial acceleration was much smaller, meaning the initial acceleration was closet to zero. this shows that the experiment done in this report could have been better conducted with a more properly calibrated air track. both groups obtained a slope of around 5, which differs from the 3.9 obtained by this experiment. this number better matches the theoretical slope of 3.9. this number represents 1/mass of the system. as discussed earlier, the y intercept shows the initial acceleration of the system. while the string in experiment has mass, it does not effect the acceleration because the mass on either end of the system at any point in time is constant through each different iteration with changing mass.  this experiment concluded that a greater applied force correlates to a greater acceleration. this experiment was theoretically frictionless, but this is not true because the air does apply some friction to the car, and there is friction between the string and the pully, these factors limit the generalizability of the results of the experiment. 



