discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of the lab was to develop a mathematical given a provided scenario using the question of how the acceleration of a system changes when the force applied changes. we found that our mathematical model was slightly off from the theoretical model due to some errors such as air resistance and friction. graph 1 depicts clearly that there is a linear relationship between the force applied and the acceleration of a system if the mass of the system remains the same. if the mass of the system were to change the linear model would not work. with the theoretical model there is no air resistance or friction acting on the system so the acceleration will be slightly more, and the model will have no y-intercept. due to the tracks uneven flow of air and the fact that the tests were not performed in a vacuum our model has a y-intercept and slope that are off. the slope of both models is found by taking one divided by the mass of the system and with our possible miss measurement of the mass and uneven flow of air we were off. the mass of the string also affected the mathematical model because ass the string moved over the edge it was adding mass to the applied force changing it over time. the heavier the string the more effect it would have on the model. since our string was almost weightless this did not greatly affect our findings. there were some systematic errors like the uneven flow of air on the track and the fly wheel not always moving during the test. random error such as miss weight an object and miss calculating the acceleration were also present and we solved these by taking multiple measurements and averaging. the measurement system for acceleration also takes the acceleration at multiple points and averages them so this reduced the random error. if we were able to complete this test in a vacuum chamber with more appropriate weights and a track that evenly distributed air we would be able to come much closer to the theoretical model.