conclusion:

the purpose of this lab was to find the impact of acceleration by applied pressure by using a cart with an air track system.  the experiment was run by placing the cart of the air track and running a string over a pulley which would measure speed.  the other side of the string is connected to fishing bobs, which would apply the force to pull the cart towards the pulley.  the data (table 1) was recorded and plotted out (figure 1), which gave the resulting mathematical model is  $y=0.0045 x + 0.0511$.  this is very similar to a theoretical model of $f=m a$.  this is changed where y is a, f is x, and 0.0045 is 1/m.  the extra 0.0511 was an uncertainty that closely related to friction.  even though we have made friction negligible, it still comes up in the normal world.  only in a perfect world there would be no friction, but we are not in a perfect world.  the 0.0045 is the inverted mass, which is given as 1/m.  other forces that could be present are friction and air resistance in which they could reflect in the equation as 0.0511.  the string could affect the acceleration because of the flaws in the string.  if the string was not straight or has knots in it, which ours did, this could cause jumps or peaks in the velocity graph that we were using to gather data.  also, since the string in not directly connected to the pulley, this would cause sliding between the pulley and string.  this would cause flaws in the found acceleration.  the group that came up with the data in figure 2 had similar data to ours.  their findings were in kilograms which was different from ours since we used grams as weight.  they also found that the experimental factors were friction and air resistance, which was similar to our findings.  this helps support the fact that our data was found correctly along with theirs.  the group that found the data in figure 3 had the same findings as both our group and the group from figure 2.  they found the mass in grams which was the similarity between our groups.  they also found that the experimental factors that caused the extra factor to be air resistance and friction, which are the same as our findings.  this further backs the point that our data is correct and accurate.  the errors that occurred that could have caused a skew in the overall data was the balance not being tared and fixed for correct weight before our lab started.  this could have caused a higher or lower mass of system.  another error that could have occurred was there was friction and air resistance in the lab.  this caused a drop in acceleration when it comes to finding an end acceleration.  constraints that could have affected the results were not using the same track as everyone but using different versions of the tracks.  also, not every cart and bobs were the same weight, which could cause a skew in data across the board.  