conclusion:
	the purpose of this lab is to find out what impacts the period of the pendulum for small swings. observing how the angle affects the period of the pendulum, it is seen from the graph that it had no effect on the swing of the pendulum. this claim can be made because the graph has a slope of 0.0038. this slope is close to zero; a zero meaning there is no relation between the independent and dependent variables. the research question can be answered in regard to the angle by saying the angle had no effect on the period of the pendulum.

	moving to the mass, the affect it had on the period of the pendulum can also be observed in the graph. this graph, figure 2, can be seen having a slope of          -0.0003. again, very similar to how the angle affected the period, the mass had no effect. the slope is very close to zero, again answering the research question in regard to the mass by saying the mass had no effect on the period of the pendulum.

	changing it up, the graph of the period v. length of string, figure 3, tells a different story. the slope of that graph follows a power function. it can be seen that as the length of the string increases, the period of the pendulum increases by some power of x. since the r2 is 0.9999, mathematically equivalent to one, it follows a power function perfectly. this helps address the research question by stating that the length of string does have an effect on the period of the pendulum.

the theoretical model for the pendulum is (2π/√g)*√l. the l variable representing the length of the string and the g variable representing the force of gravity (9.8m/s2). the data found in figure 3 fit this model because the actual equation found was 0.2491x0.4623. from algebra, it is known that x1/2 is equal to the √x. if 2π/√g is calculated out, it gives the value of 2.007. it is 2.007 because gravity is in m/s2, and the equation found was calculated in cm. since the equations are very similar, the data found fits the theoretical model very closely. mass and angle find no place in this equation because they do not affect the period in any way when dealing with small swings. the found and theoretical model are the so close, that the data found makes sense and follows the theoretical models very closely, but not exactly due to error.

some errors that occurred include errors with stopping the stopwatch. for the data found for the angle v. period and the mass v. period, it was incredibly tough the stop the stopwatch exactly when period finished its rotation. this resulted in a random and created a standard deviation of 0.54. this could be reduced by taking the time over multiple periods with the same variables and taking the average. or even using the photogates for every trial would have greatly reduced this random error. another random error falls with controlling the angles. it was rather difficult to hold a protractor up to the string and measure an exact angle. although it theoretical would have no effect on the period, it still was hard to keep exactly controlled. this could be reduced by using a device that exactly holds the angle to the desired degree.

there were very little to no constraints this experiment that may limit the generalizability of the results found. the actual found model is extremely close the theoretical model, giving it credibility. the errors in the mass and angle tests may not be as credible due to the random errors that were found, and how, in the performed tests, a slope was found, and it was no exactly zero, like it theoretically should have been. other than that, success was found in the lab and the results proved worthy.