discussion and conclusion

during labs 01-03, the properties of a pendulum that influence its period of oscillation were investigated, testing the independent variables mass, angle of release, and the length of the string.  the dependent variable was the period of oscillation measured in seconds.  while one independent variable was tested, the other two variables were held constant, acting as control variables.

according to the data displayed in table 1 and graph 1, there is no relationship between the mass of the pendulum and its period of oscillation.  the data remains within 0.01s of each other and their error bars shown in graph 1 overlap significantly.  this overlap shows that there is no relationship between mass and period of oscillation; therefore the initial hypothesis is rejected.  we predicted that a larger mass would cause a longer period of oscillation; however the period remained relatively constant, and therefore this prediction cannot be supported.

according to the data displayed in table 2 and graph 2, there is no relationship between the angle of release of a pendulum and its period of oscillation.  the data remains within 0.06s of each other and their error bars shown in graph 2 overlap significantly for all data points.  this overlap shows that there is no correlation between the angle of release and the period of oscillation; therefore the initial hypothesis is rejected.  we predicted that a larger angle of release would cause a longer period of oscillation; however the period remained relatively constant, and therefore this prediction cannot be supported.

according to the data displayed in table 3 and graph 3, there appears to be a relationship between the length of the string of a pendulum and its period of oscillation.  there is clearly a positive correlation between this independent variable and dependent variable, and the error bars on the data points shown in graph 3 do not overlap, meaning that this claim can be accepted.  this data supports the hypothesis that string length influences the period of oscillation of a pendulum, as well as our prediction that longer string lengths would lead to longer periods of oscillation.  because this prediction held true, an additional experiment was conducted using a photogate to time the periods rather than timing the period by hand with a timer in order to minimize random error.

according to the data displayed in table 4 and graph 4 using the photogate, there is a clear positive relationship between string length and the period of oscillation.  the error bars do not overlap (in fact they are so small they cannot be seen on the graph) so the data can be accepted.  the data from this investigation supports the hypothesis that string length influences the period of oscillation, as well as our prediction that a longer string length will cause a longer period of oscillation.

the actual theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, where “t” is the time for a period, “l” is the length of the string in meters, and “g” is the acceleration downward due to gravity (-9.8m/s2).  the mathematical model for the period of a pendulum that was derived from the experiments conducted to obtain graph 4 is $t=0.1955 x^{0.5054}$, where “t” is the time for a period, and “x” is the length of the string in centimeters.  according to the theoretical equation for a pendulum, the period for a string length of 0.5m is equal to 1.42s.  using the same string length in the mathematical model for the period that was developed in this investigation, the period is equal to 1.41s.  this means that the data collected is fairly significant, creating a model that is almost completely accurate.

while this model is fairly accurate, it is still not 100% accurate.  a possible reason for this would be that only seven data points were collected due to time constraints in the lab; more data points may have provided a more accurate model.  another possible reason would be that acceleration due to gravity as well as wind resistance were not taken into account during this experiment, simply because we did not have the ability to account for this.

along with these constraints to the experiment, there were sources of random error contributing to the data collected for each of the independent variables.  because the timing for each period was recorded by hand (aside from the data set obtained using the photogate), the stopwatch was most likely not started and stopped at precisely the moment of release and upon completion of one period.  this random error would be present in the data from tables and graphs 1-3.  to try and combat this error, three trials were run with each respective variation in the independent variable and the times were then averaged.  this random error was then eliminated by the use of the photogate in the final investigation.  another source of random error that can be seen in the investigation of angle of release vs. the period of oscillation has to do with the use of a protractor.  after the angle was measured and the protractor was removed, there is no guarantee that the angle was held constant by the person releasing the pendulum, and this would have also skewed the data slightly.  in order to combat this, one member of the team could have continued holding the protractor while another member held the pendulum at the correct angle.  another source of random error can be attributed to the use of the tape measure to measure the length of the string.  because the pendulum is hanging and free moving, it is difficult to say if the length was measured at a 90 degree vertical, and this may have slightly altered the actual lengths used.

systematic error was also present in this experiment alongside the sources of random error.  sources of systematic error include inaccurate tape measures and protractors, timer/photogate uncertainty or malfunction, and inaccurate mass of the weights used.  each of these errors could be accounted for by determining the uncertainty of the measuring devices (as was done with the photogate) or by purchasing more accurate, less worn devices.  a systematic error was also discovered late in our investigation caused by inappropriate measurement of the string’s length.  the length of the string had previously been determined by measuring from the top of the string to the bottom of the hoop that held the weights, when in reality the measurement should have continued to the center of mass of the weight.  to correct this, the length from the top of the mass that was hooked to the string’s loop to the center of the mass was measured and found to be 7.5 cm, the length of which was then added to all previous measurement to remove this error.

in this experiment, variables that could possibly influence the period of oscillation of a pendulum were investigated.  it was found that the length of the string was the only independent variable of the three investigated to have an effect on the period.