Ultimately, we were trying to answer the question of what impacts the period of a pendulum swing for small swings.  By analyzing the error bars on our graphs as described in the previous paragraph, we were able to conclude that the only independent variable of the three we tested that had a relationship with the period of the pendulum was the length of the string.  We knew from analyzing the error bars that as we increased the length of the string, the pendulum period increased, so we knew that they have a direct relationship.  However, we didn’t know if it was linear or not.  Therefore, we decided to test the Period vs. Length of String more accurately in Lab 03-Introduction to Mathematical Modeling using a photogate (uncertainty of 0.001 seconds per standard deviation).
	We repeated the same procedures in the earlier experiment, where we kept the small angle of release and the mass of the hanging object constant, even though we concluded earlier that they didn’t impact the period of the pendulum.  Our results from Lab 03-Introduction to 

	The data from this lab confirm the relationship we found in our earlier experiment.  Since the error bars are only + or – 0.002 s, they are too small to be seen on the above graph, but they are still present.  By initially looking at these error bars in our data, we can clearly see that the relationship we have between pendulum period and length of the string is not linear.  To test what type of relationship we had, we tried out all the different trendlines on Microsoft Excel.  The power trendline best fit our data, as seen from the equation displayed on the graph above.
	When we lookup the true theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum, we get the following is 
$t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$
	Our mathematical model is close to the true equation.  Our power of 0.4074 is close to the power of 0.5 in the true equation, and our coefficient of 0.319 is close to the actual value of 0.201.  Since our model is close to the actual theoretical equation, we can conclude that our mathematical model does support the true theoretical equation.
	All the errors discussed earlier were random errors, and the primary way that we could eliminate these is to take multiple trials and take an average or to add in the error range of + or – 2 standard deviations to account for the random error.  We were unable to identify any systematic errors in our measurement process, but if we were to identify any of them, we would simply measure how far off each systematic error was impacting our data and, in our data analysis, we would adjust our data in the right direction by the magnitude that the errors were impacting our data (as discussed in Lab 02-Introduction to Error Analysis).
	Even though our mathematical model supported the theoretical equation, and our data looks good, there are some constraints to our experiment.  One of the constraints is that the theoretical equation is for the period of a pendulum is for an ideal pendulum, but our pendulum is not exactly ideal.  Our pendulum has air resistance as it swings and there is friction between the string and the pendulum stand.  Additionally, it is nearly impossible to perfectly release the pendulum without applying any force or spin, which could impact the period of the pendulum.  These constraints make it hard to get results that perfectly match the theoretical equation, which is why our close results (while not a perfect match) still support the theoretical model.
	When we look back at our original research question, we finally have our answer.  The only tested independent variable that impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings is the length of the string in the pendulum.  Additionally, we know how the length of the string impacts the period of the pendulum using our derived mathematical model from Lab 03-Introduction to Mathematical Modeling.