conclusion:
The purpose of these labs was to calculate and learn the relationship between the acceleration of a pulley system and the applied force. The applied force was found to be the hanging bobs (M₂). The equation for the system is $a=\frac{f}{m}$. F is equal to the sum of all the forces that act on the system. M is the mass of the entire system (cart and bobs). A is equal to the slope of the velocity that the system moves. The total forces that act on the cart (M₁) are the normal force, gravitational force and tension due to the string that attached the cart to the bobs. The . normal points up in the y-direction and the gravitational force points down in the y-direction. The tension is directed away from the cart and towards the string that connects the cart and hanging bobs. The acceleration needs to be going in the same direction, so there are 2 forces action on the hanging bobs tha go in the x-direction. The theoretical equation with the mass as 149.65 g is $y=5.4 x$, x is the weight of the hanging bobs and y is the acceleration. 
	The experimental model changing the applied force but keeping the mass of the cart constant was used to make sure we understood how the force applied affected the acceleration. In Figure 1, the IV with relation to the mathematical model is the weight of the system. The DV is the acceleration of the cart in the x. The experimental equation is $y=0.0036 x+0.1211$. The equation is positive and linear. This proves that the prediction was correct. The uncertainty of the graph was 0.0001 kg. The vertical error bar of 0.001m/s2 was given. The horizontal error bar of 0.0001 is from systematic error. The balance only measured mass in small increments. 
To support my groups data, Group 3 also came to the conclusion that the relationship between acceleration and applied force would be linear. Differences were there starting mass which was 149.2 g, and their experimental equation which was $y=0.0043 x-0.0162$.
	Group 5 also had a linear graph for the relationship between acceleration and applied force. This just further proves that the prediction made prior to the experiment was true. Differences between my group and group 5 are total mass of the system and their theoretical model. Their mass was 148.40 g and their theoretical model was $y=0.2051 x-0.0029$. Both groups had a negative sign in their model but my groups was positive.The experimental equation differed from the theoretical equation in that there was a negative y-intercept in accordance with the linear graph. This can mean that there was another outside force that was acting on the system. If the string had no mass, this would make the velocities and accelerations different. 
A random error was that we didn’t put the cart at the same spot on the track for each trial. The distance the cart traveled was different each time. We could’ve measured a distance, marked it, and kept it constant throughout the experiment. A systematic error was that the air tracks were completely frictionless. Also some of the tracks were off center and not level. One constraint in the experiment is that since the track was supposedly “frictionless” we didn’t include that factor in any of our calculations. Since there was friction, there would also be a coefficient of friction which also was left out of the theoretical model.