Discussion and Conclusion

	During the Labs Five and Six, the Newton's Laws Experiments Part One and Two were completed. In these experiments, a central testable question was being examined is  how does the acceleration change when applied force changes? The dependent variable that was tested in this experiment was the acceleration of a moving cart on a frictionless track. The independent variable that was tested was the force applied due to the hanging mass. The experimentation process included changing the force applied, and recording how these changes made any alterations in the acceleration of the system. 
	Table 1 details the experimental design plan which includes the central testable question, the independent variables, dependent variables, control variables, prediction, and hypothesis. The control variables were stated to be the mass of the system which was 0.1886 kg, and the state of friction which was frictionless, and the length of the string which was maintained at 1 meter. The hypothesis stated that if the applied force were to be changed, then the acceleration would also change. Additionally, the prediction stated that if the applied force of the system were to increase, then the acceleration would also increase. The graph displayed in the prediction section of the design plan shows a positive, linear relationship and was the predicted graph shape for the experimental data points. 
	The experiment was conducted in a very specific way. The applied force was altered by using bobs, each weighing approximately five grams, and adding them to the pulley. This then created the applied force, which turned out to be force due to hanging mass. The cart was placed on a frictionless track and the acceleration was recorded with the Data Studio program. Nine trials were completed using the bobs available, and the data was recorded in Table 2. The mass of the bobs was used to calculate force applied with the equation for gravitational force $F=mg$ g being the acceleration of gravity which is 9.8m/s2. This equation was used to calculate applied force and this variable along with the acceleration variable were plotted on Excel to create Figure 1.  
	Figure 1 displays the data from the experimentation of the force applied affecting acceleration on a scatterplot, with error bars. The error bars on this scatterplot were made using the scale error of 0.001. The error bars are not visible because they are extremely small in comparison to the ranges of the axes, and scale error was used as the uncertainty because the slope's uncertainty  was smaller than the scale error. Figure 1 demonstrates the relationship between force applied and acceleration to be a positive, linear relationship.
	On top of analyzing initial data, it is also important to be peer-reviewed to add credibility to the data and the conclusions. Looking over two other group's data on the same experiment. it was clear that all three groups agreed upon the same conclusions. Both group's data are displayed in Figures 2 and 3 on whiteboards, with their data, tables, and final conclusions from the experiment. Group One concluded that there was a relationship between applied force and the acceleration of a system, and they controlled the mass of the system and the distance of the track. Their data showed a positive, linear relationship between the two factors, and it was also noted that potential environmental factors could have been any tension in the string and friction, which would result in a reduced measurement. Group Two concluded very similarly to Group One, and to the original data, in that a change in applied force of a system would also result in a change in the acceleration of the system. The data showed the same positive, linear relationship that every group found. This group also kept the mass of the system controlled. They found that some environmental factors that may have affected the data were air resistance, friction within the pulley, mass of the string, and friction from the track. In conclusion, both of these groups' data supported the hypothesis of my group. Peer-reviewing is a very important part of being a member of the scientific community, because it adds credibility, acts as check for accuracy and precision of results (in case it is replicated), and assesses the practicality of it all. 
	$a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$ is the stated standard experimental model, however, the mathematical model that was calculated from the data inputted into Excel was found to be $y=4.210 x+0.057$. This was found with the derived equation $a=C1 w+C2$. This still shows a positive, linear relationship between the two factors, which makes it an acceptable theoretical model. The enhanced theoretical model is stated to be $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$, which again has a positive, linear relationship when graphed on a plot. However, this model is not an appropriate model because it lacks the idea of friction. (i) Other forces outside of the hanging weight that may have been present in the experimental context may have included mass of the string, tension in the string, friction of the pulley system (friction on the track was considered to be negligible in this situation), and air resistance. These "environmental" factors would have resulted in reduced values for the data points and therefore would have skewed the data towards one side of the plot. (ii) The mass of system was a variable that was controlled throughout all of the experimentation. This factor shows up in the experimental model within the F, because $F=m g$ and this m would account for mass of the system for the first set of values. (iii) Along with this, a non-massless string connecting the hanging mass to the cart would not affect the uniform acceleration of the cart because the mass of the system is kept constant, and within the mass of the system the mass of the string has been included, therefore a non-massless string would not affect uniform acceleration.
	There are many errors that could have caused discrepancies within the data. Systematic error includes not measuring the proper weight of the bobs, which would constantly result in an incorrect calculated applied force, and then when plotted, an inaccurate experimental mathematical model. One random error that could have occurred is if the cart was not pulled back to the designated mark each time or if the cart was moved during the trials because of outside forces. These would cause either reductions or peaks in values for the data points and therefore later calculations. A way to reduce systematic error is by being extremely accurate with the readings for measurements, or measuring each bob separately because each bob might have slightly different masses, or making sure the company who manufactures the scale is reputable and the markings on the scale are credible. A way to reduce random error is simply paying attention and being diligent during experimentation, or having one person release the cart while making sure it is in the same spot each time, and even having another person verify the accuracy of these tasks. 
	Certain constraints that limit the generalization of the experiment include the number of trials that could be performed which is an extension to the idea that there is only a certain amount of time that be spent on the experiment within the class lab timings. To reach a statistically significant sample size, the sample size must be thirty, however, this experiment only completed nine trials, making the data not generalizable. 
	In conclusion. the experiment was performed with a high degree of success, and as minimal of errors as could be done in the workspace provided. The results showed a distinct relationship between the applied force due to hanging mass and the acceleration of the system. The hypothesis was supported by the results and also by the peer-reviewed scientific communtiy findings. 
