discussion:

	

		the purpose of this experiment was to determine how the acceleration of a system changes when the applied force changes. to test this, the mass of the components of a system involving a hanging mass and a cart were systematically altered for each trial, maintaining constant system mass (188.6g) for all trials. this was done by moving one of eight bobbers that were part of the system from the cart to the hanging mass. for each trial the hanging mass and cart mass were determined, then the system was placed on a frictionless air track with the cart on the track and the hanging weight connected to the cart, hanging off the edge of the track over a pully. the cart was then released, and the acceleration was recorded using photogate software, which also determined error for each individual data point collected (table 2). the minimum error for the software (+/- 0.001) was used for all points whose error was less than (+/- 0.001) (table 2). the data collected was then graphed by plotting the hanging mass against the acceleration of the system (figure 1). the trendline ($y=0.0477 x - 0.0107$ was then determined based off these data points (figure 1). 

		the trendline ($y=0.0477 x - 0.0107$ and r2 value (r2 is 0.9977) indicated that there is a positive linear relationship between the force (m g) and acceleration of the cart. the data successfully generated an experimental mathematical model for the relationship between force and acceleration consistent with newton’s theoretical model (figure 2). both friction and gravity are present in the experimental context, as the track and pulley are not entirely frictionless, and gravity is acting on the hanging mass. the force due to friction appears mathematically in the experimental model as c2, while the hanging force appears as c1x, where x is equal to the hanging mass and c1 is the force of gravity divided by the mass of the system (figure 2). in this system, a non-massless string would cause the acceleration to increase non-uniformly. potential sources systematic of error could include use of an uncalibrated scale, or an uncalibrated acceleration measuring software. these systematic errors could only be fixed by calibrating the scale or software. random error could have also occurred if the cart was wobbled when released. random errors could have been minimized by increasing the number of trials done for each hanging mass. 

		these findings are consistent with data obtained by other groups (figure 3). however, the other groups used the force of the hanging mass plotted against the acceleration to generate their trend lines, which also indicate a positive linear relationship between hanging force and acceleration. the difference between the line generated by our group and the other two groups lies in the mathematical interpretation of the line generated by the data. our group must account for the line showing the relationship between the hanging mass and the acceleration mathematically, and the other groups must interpret their line as the relationship between the force due to the hanging mass and the acceleration. 


		the relationship between the applied force and the acceleration was determined experimentally using a hanging weight attached to a cart on a frictionless track by a string over a pully. the total mass of the system (188.6g) composed of a cart and eight bobbers was kept constant while weight was systematically moved from the cart to the hanging mass by moving one bobber at a time, then the acceleration of the cart was measured using photogate software (table 2). the hanging mass was then plotted against the acceleration to generate the linear equation ($y=0.0477 x - 0.0107$, which serves as a mathematical model for the relationship between the force of the hanging mass versus acceleration and indicates that there is a positive linear relationship between the force of the hanging mass and the acceleration of the system (figure 1). this is consistent with newton’s second law, which states that the net force is equal to the mass times the acceleration (figure2). therefore, as the hanging mass increases, the force (mg) increases, and the acceleration of the cart increases (figure 2). these findings were supported by those of other groups (group 1 l 003, 9/25/18) (group 2 l 003) (figure 3). 
