discussion and conclusion

throughout these three experiments we tested several factors that could affect the period (swing) of a pendulum. the question that our research was trying to answer was “what impacts the period of a pendulum?” three factors were tested throughout the experiment including string length, mass of the pendulum, and angle that the pendulum was dropped at. each factor was tested as an independent variable with the other two factors being used as control variables. 

concerning the length of the string for the pendulum, graph 1 and table 1 indicate a positive correlation between increasing length and increasing period time. this positive correlation is seen on our graphs since the slope of our curve moves in a nearly straight line upward. our error bars are very noticeable on the graph so there is clear indication of overlap but, the overlap is in a constant upward motion. the equivalency criterion for the string length experiment was + or – 0.001 for our last experiment because of our use of a machine to reduce any systematic error caused by us (starting and stopping a timer too early or late) or random error caused by a stopwatch (rounding off). in experiment 1 we had an equivalency criterion of + or – 0.01

regarding the mass of the pendulum, graph 2 and table 2 indicated that mass did not affect the period of the pendulum. how we came to this conclusion was that we had a straight-line graph that had no slope. because our error bars are so tiny and due to the lack of slope, we assumed any error (random or systematic) to be negligible for the experiments using mass as a dv. the equivalency criterion was + or – 0.01 for the mass experiment. because we determined that the mass had no effect on the period of the pendulum we took this into consideration when we came to determine the equivalency criterion. “because experimental errors are inherent to the instruments and techniques used in this lab course, an equivalency criterion of ±2σ will be used to determine if two values may be equivalent. recall that ±2σ provides a confidence level of 95%, indicating that the true value is very likely to lie within this range of uncertainty” (uc lab 02)

graph 3 and table 3 for the angle of release showed that it didn’t matter at what angle the pendulum was released. this is apparent because our graph was a straight line with no slope to the graph. the error bars are tiny but do not matter because we have no slope and overlap is going to occur because of this. the equivalency criterion that we measured was + or – 0.01 for the angle experiment. 

because we are making a mathematical model, we need an equation that will correspond to the information that we have on our graph. the equation that we are using is (2pi/sqrt(g)sqrt(l). when we use this model in terms of a string length of 0.5 m, we find that the time is 1.4 s which is equal to what our graph says. fitting a curve to our scatter plot produces a value of $y=1.0027014 x$ and an r2 value of 1. 

random errors are errors that occur without humans making a mistake. these are errors that occur in experiments that generally have to do with mistakes that occur within the tools that we are using to measure. one of these errors that could have been a consideration for our experiments is rounding off errors within the stopwatches that we used to keep track of our timing. along with random error that is associated with the use of stopwatches, we also have systematic error that could have occurred with using stopwatches. as humans we may have slow reaction times, gotten slightly distracted during testing and stopped the stopwatch too late that way or even started a bit early when timing. the way that we eliminated a lot of both errors was using a digital measuring device that recorded the period of the pendulum to a standard error of + or – 0.001 (an incredibly small deviation that doesn’t show up on a graph unless it is zoomed in a lot). it seems that if we are using well calibrated tools and measuring devices that take human error out of the equation we can obtain very near to perfect results when it comes to mathematically modeling our graphs and information. if we were without the option of using highly calibrated tools that ensured accuracy and precision, we could continue taking more data and averaging out our times from all the data points.

time constraints for the lab seemed to not be in our groups favor. we generally ran over time answering questions regarding our experiment. there was plenty of time for our experiment to be conducted and recorded. another constraint that we ran into regarding string length was that our string for our 2 meters experiment was almost not long enough to perform our experiment. had we had a longer pole and longer string (as well as a place outside) we could have taken this experiment to some extreme proportions! 
