discussion:

although the mathematical calculations depicted in table 4 theoretically should have enabled the exact calculation of applied force necessary to generate an acceleration of 0.444m/s^2, such precision was unachievable using the model derived during lab 05.  the observed slopes of experiment 06 were both significantly larger than the target of 0.444m/s^2, indicating a failure to approximate the exact applied force necessary to achieve the target acceleration of the system.  the reason behind this failure was that the y-intercept accounting for external forces on the system was inaccurate.   this is because there was a large hole in the vacuum powering the rail’s air pressure, and each time this hole was manually plugged (by holding the hole with hands), a varying amount of air still escaped, causing unequal variation across trials.  given this leakage, a different y-intercept would exist in each trial, and each trial’s derivation of a y-intercept could not be used for successive trials due to the limited applicability of the y-intercept across trials.  

by comparison, mayweather group derived a mathematical model of $y=5.0147 x - 0.0318$ while sato group derived a model of  $y=5.6 x - 0.0515$ both of which had y-intercepts significantly lower than porthos’ 0.1174.  these other groups did not have such significant leakage had much smaller y-intercept absolute values, indicating a much smaller presence of external forces.  more importantly, the external forces that did act on these groups’ systems acted in a more consistent manner, enabling their calculations to have greater predictive value and produce more accurate results than those of porthos.



experiment 06 conclusion is 

	although experiment 05 successfully generated a mathematical model supporting the hypothesis of a positive, linear relationship between applied force and acceleration of a system, the presence of an inconsistent leak in the vacuum made experiment 05’s mathematical inappropriate for use in the calculations of lab 06 because the effect of the leakage was different with each trial.  using experiment 05’s model as the basis for experiment 06’s hanging mass calculations resulted in an actual acceleration of 0.535m/s^2, much higher than the target of 0.444m/s^2. lab 06 thus demonstrated the limitations of mathematical models derived from small sets of experimentally observed data, and also highlighted the importance of minimizing error and recognizing that inconsistent (non-systematic) error that is factored into such models will result in calculations that are only weakly predictive (meaning that the models themselves have minimal general applicability).