
conclusion:
The research question that lab’s 5 and 6 focused on was the exploration of how the acceleration of a system would change, based on the increase or decrease of the force applied on the system. This lab was completed using a system that comprised of a cart on an air track. This cart system included the cart itself along with 8 fishing bobs that gave a total mass of 0.187kg. To change the applied force on the cart, bobs were moved from sitting on the cart itself, to hanging from the end of a string on the pulley. As a group, we gradually increased the number of bobs by 1 each time until all 8 bobs were hanging from the string and none were sitting on the cart. The data was collected by using the air track system and a special velocity reader which could indicate the velocity change over time. By calculating the slope of each velocity over time, we were then able to determine the acceleration for each trial and subsequently place all the data into Table 1 and then graph the data using excel, which is represented in Figure 1.
	Figure 1 is a graph comparing both the independent variable of Force applied (N) against the dependent variable of the acceleration of the system (m/s2). After points were plotted, error bars were added based on what the scale’s error was or the error provided by the velocity reader. In our graph, both error bars are not visible due to the fact that their values were too small. When finished, a line of best fit was calculated for the graph indicating the linear relationship found between the Force applied (N) and the acceleration (m/s2). This primarily allowed us to know that there was in fact a relationship between both variables but also that there was in fact a positive relationship between the two indicating that as the force applied went up, so did the acceleration of the system. Our line of best fit was also able to help us derive an experimental equation of $y=4.6961 x - 0.0841$. This not only backed up our hypothesis of the positive relationship, noted by the positive slope of the line. However, it also allowed us to infer that the equation similarly matched up to the theoretical equation of . We were able to note that y is the observed acceleration, the slope represents the reciprocal of the net mass of the system (5.35), x is force applied and the intercept of -0.0841 is equal to the exterior force over the mass of the system (not able to calculate). 
This data was also able to be verified by two other groups in our lab class. Group Dusty Pigeon’s hypothesis matched ours. Their system had a net mass of the system (control variable) of  0.188kg, and they did not keep the string length consistent. In analysis of their data, they came to the equation of $y=5.1023 x-0.0202$ (Dusty Pigeon’s). This equation differs from our equation in that the values are different themselves but also that they had a better slope that was closer to their theoretical value of 0.52949. This indicates that their measurements might have been a bit more precise over ours due to our possible human errors. Their intercept was also negative like ours was, however theirs was a bit greater, indicating that they might have had more resistance on their system over ours. However different, we were both able to come to the same conclusion that the force applied and the acceleration were positively correlated and indicated a relationship. The group Group Name was able to derive an equation as well and create a similar experiment. They also had the same hypothesis as ours and had a system that had a mass of 0.188kg. They were also able to analyze their data and derive the experimental equation of $y=5.1 x-52.9$ (Group Name). Their value for the slope of the line (reciprocal of the mass of system) was 5.1 which was closer to their theoretical value of 5.3. This indicates that they also must have had less human error than ours, and that they were more precise in their experiment. Their intercept (force of friction over mass) was extremely larger than ours at 52.9N. This indicates that they had significantly more resistance on their system and that they were influenced by it greatly. However different, we were also able to come to the same conclusion that the force applied, and the acceleration of the system were related and that they indicated a positive relationship. 
In the Observed equation C1 is equal to the reciprocal of the mass of the system and the C2 is the force of friction over the mass of the system. This theoretical equation was able to remove the force of friction as it was almost negligible due to the air track system. 
The extensive equation is as follows is  
 This equation primarily matches up with our equation that we calculated from excel. We were able to determine that $C1 x = \frac{f}{m_{system}}$ and that the $C2 =\frac{f_{friction}}{m_{system}}$ . When comparing the one comparable difference we could notice was the value for the C1 of our equation. The theoretical model would have our C1 value (1/) at 5.35. Our equation determined that our C1 value was at 4.6961. This discrepancy could have been due to human error, such as us pushing the cart as we released it, or not properly massing the cart at the beginning of the experiment. This could have been remedied by slowing down and double checking all measurements. 
Our constant of  was determined to be -0.0841 in our experimental equation, however it is difficult for us to measure our force of friction in the lab, therefore we are unable to determine and compare the two models. To do so we would need to be using a force meter that could measure the resistance on the system and properly be able to compare the values. However, we were able to determine that our resistance in the experimental equation would equal around -0.0179N indicating that there was little to no resistance in the system. 
	The value of the negative resistance seems to be very odd as usually there is always resistance, but however due to the small scale of the experiment and the fact that the air track removes a lot of the resistance, we could say that potentially due to these reasons, we should expect a very low resistance/ force of friction. 
	If we were to use a heavier string, we would expect to see a different equation entirely. Not only would the mass of our system need to account for this change in the string weight, but also the resistance would change in our equation as heavier string means more space, therefore more room for resistance and friction.  It would also affect our acceleration by most likely increasing it, as we already know that the mass of the system/force applied has a positive relationship with the acceleration and if we are subsequently increasing the mass of the system, we should see a somewhat increase in the acceleration as well. 
