conclusion:
The first experiment that was run was looking at the impact of an angle on the period of the pendulum. Three different angles were tested while the mass and length of the string were kept the same. The experimental design and the data for the experiment can be seen in table 1 and table 2. 
From this data, it can be concluded that a pendulum at a 45-degree angle will have the greatest period, while the 15 degrees and 10 degree angle measurements do not follow the same pattern. While the period is faster in the smaller angles, there are numbers that overlap that show that it cannot be assumed that the smaller the angle, the faster the period. Our measurement for time and angle might not have been as precise as it should have been in order to get the best results. Since there is this overlap, the error bars will overlap, which means that it is said that the angle measurement does not have an effect on the period of the pendulum.  

	The next experiment that was done was looking at the mass at the end of the pendulum and whether that had an effect on the period. Three different masses were measured while the length of the string and the angle were kept constant. The results of the experiment can be seen in table 3 and table 4. 

From table 4, it can be seen that the largest weight (90g) has the longest period. The 70 g and 50 g weights show an overlap in their data. This could be because of systematic error from the manual timing that was done to get the period time. Since this overlap occurs, and in the error bars, it is said that the mass does not affect the period of the pendulum. 

	The third experiment looked at the effect of length on a pendulum period. This was done by changing the length of the string while keeping the angle and mass the same. By changing one variable and keeping all others the same, you are able to look and see the impact that one thing has on the period of the pendulum. 


This data shows that as the length of the string gets longer, the period of the pendulum gets larger. This was the only experiment in which as you get a longer string, the period gets longer, and as you get a shorter string the period gets faster. The first swing time for 20 in and 15 in are the same value, which doesn’t contradict the other data found. 
This experiment was run to help better eliminate the errors that could have happened during the trials. Three people timed each trial and the average was taken of the three numbers to get what you see in the table above. The standard deviation for this set 0.068. By taking the time for more swings at once, such as 10, and dividing that end number by 10, there is a less chance of random error occurring. From the data of the last three experiments, we can only see that they would have positive slopes. 

Since mass and angle did not affect the period of the pendulum, the length of the string does change the period. When error bars do not cross on a graph, it can be said that the tested variable does effect the results of the experiment. Since the length does have an effect on the period, an experiment was done to test this further. An instrument was used to help better track the period of the pendulum. Nine trials were run with four different lengths of the string. The same lengths as before were tested again and a much smaller length was added so that if length did change the period, it could be easily noticed. 

A best fit line was able to be made, using the mathematical model $t=0.292$. This model was consistent with the prediction because the shorter the length, the faster the period, and the longer the length, the slower the period. Unfortunately the mathematical model that was found cannot be used since it does not include mass. Since the mass does affect the period, that means that there error bars that overlapped. 

Random errors in this experiment could have been that the timer was not started and/or stopped at the right time, the way the pendulum was released could have been different each time (pushed, circle motion, sideways), and the tension of the string not being the same each time. These errors could have been fixed by having more than one person time it and releasing with the same amount of tension (maybe by the same person each time). Systematic errors could be the length of the string not being exact, measured incorrectly, or stretched out after each use. Systematic errors could have been fixed by measuring the string with two different tools, or by different people. Some restraints that this experiment would have that would affect the generalizability of the results could be that not enough trials were run on each independent variable. When the length of the string was able to be run again nine times, it was easier to get a bigger generalization of how the length of the string affects the period. It was discovered that the smaller the string the faster the period, the bugger the string the slower the period. The positive slope that was observed earlier in the lab, cannot be true because the error bars overlap which indicates that the true value could be in a range of numbers. Fixing this would mean taking more data from each experiment to reduce the standard deviation. 

	 