conclusion

we investigated some of the factors that could impact the period of a pendulum swing, specifically length of string, mass of the pendulum, and angle of release. the length of string was the only one out of the three factors we tested that really did impact the period of a pendulum. the error bars don’t overlap for the whole plot of data that we assembled and there is a significant differences if you look at the spread of data we collected. as the length of the string is increased, the period of the pendulum takes a longer amount of time to be completed.  the other two factors, angle of release and mass of the pendulum, don’t show a significant difference of period change and error bars overlap throughout the data set. there is an uncertainty that prevents us from saying those factors had an impact on period length for a pendulum. the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. our data fits this model pretty well. we conducted another test to determine how well our data fit and this is what we found.

based on our methods of collecting data, our procedures resulted in a very low margin of error. this finding is beneficial in validating the rest of our data set and we get very similar numbers when applying the mathematical model for period of a pendulum compared to the equation we found through excel for our specific set of tested data. the factors that don’t impact the period of the pendulum also don’t impact the mathematical model, further confirming our findings. over the course of the tests, there will always be error, specifically, systematic and random error. errors in measuring of time, length, and angle could be put into the category of random error, while the systematic errors in this series of tests are the tape measure possibly being stretched out and the assumed mass of the pendulum bob and its plates. repeated measurements can reduce the random errors in this case. systematic errors in this test can be lessened by using a new tape measure and weighing the mass of the pendulum bob and plates to make sure they really are as massive as indicated.