discussion and conclusion

the research question we investigated was if the acceleration of the system was affected by the force at all. there was four main factors involved in this lab and they were the cart, the string, the frictionless measuring track, and the bobbers that were being added each trial. these values were all measured through a program on the computer that is called data studio. 

the hanging weight was the bobbers hanging from the end of the string and the pulley. we did this to see if acceleration of the system was affected by force at all. first we started with one bobber and kept adding one by one until we got to 8 bobbers. then after all the points were found we plotted our data into excel and got a linear regression for the hanging weight graph. the slope for the graph was 22.691. there was a decent amount of error that might of happened because we didn’t have enough time so we started rushing it, but our r^2 value was .9298. the error bars were found using excel and they’re too small to be seen on the graph. what was claimed from this experiment was that the more mass there was the higher the force would be and also the acceleration would be higher. this proves our hypothesis correct because that is what we had concluded. 

we never received another groups information because they never sent it to us, but our numbers were very similar last i recall when they presented it to us last week. there numbered supported our numbers because we had said and did the exact same thing in lab. they had a similar slope and a r^2 value which is good. there numbers supported our numbers for the most part. also we tried contacting them but we still didn’t receive anything from them. 

the correct theoretical equation is $a=\frac{f_{gravity}}{m} - \frac{f_friction}{m}$. the equation equals the total acceleration. the f-gravity is the force being applied by the bobbers on the string and the f-friction is the force that happens because of friction and obviously the m stand for the mass. our mathematical equation we got was $y=22.691 x+.0379$ which supports the theoretical equation that we discussed in class. the y-intercept .379 comes from the theoretical equation. 

if the hanging string was heavy then it would affect the results alot. depending on how heavy the string was it would also affect the acceleration of the pulley with the bobbers. this is because the string would be adding on mass with the bobbers which we would have to take account for. so heavier the string is the more it’s going to affect the acceleration of the pulley. 

there wasn’t much room for error in this experiment but there is always going to be human error. for example we were taking the weight of the bobbers physically, so we could have had something more precise to figure out the weight of the bobbers. also could have used a lighter string. the string could have had some effect on the acceleration of the pulley. the last error could have been the data studio program, because we had to hold onto the pulley before we started it and that could have skewed our results. also when getting the equation of the line we had to select a certain amount of the line and selecting the part where the slope was messed up could have also skewed our results. some systematic error that could have occurred is the friction or rotational energy of the pulley. there could have been more ideal place to do this experiment with no friction at all, but the friction could have affected it. this is the major constraint throughout the experiment because in an ideal experiment we’d have a frictionless plane. the string could have also been a constraint because it had some weight to it which would definitely affect the acceleration even if its minimum. any random error could have been anything we couldn’t detect like the ac vent of the fan blowing. these are just some of the errors that could have occurred to us throughout the experiment.