discussion

in this lab, the goal was to observe how the acceleration of a system (with a constant mass) relates to the applied force. then, by observing how the acceleration is related to the applied force, we can derive our own equation that relates those two factors. first, it was hypothesized that there is a direct relationship between the applied force and the acceleration of the system. seven fishing bobs were attached to the cart as seen in image 1, with one hanging from the string over the end of the track. we then tested the acceleration. to change the applied force while keeping the mass of the whole system the same, a bob was taken off of the cart and attached to the end of the string pulling on the cart. this would effectively increase the force (mg) pulling on the cart while keeping the mass of the system constant. eight trials were performed, each with a different applied force. the results can be seen in table 1. then the applied forces and resulting accelerations were graphed (graph 1) and a line of best fit was calculated using excel. the equation of the line of best fit was found to be $y=4.7231 x - 0.0124$. this equation relates the force applied and acceleration of the cart. there are no overlapping error bars.  the vertical error bars are too small to be seen on the graph and the horizontal error bars are nowhere near overlapping so we know that the data shows an increase. because the line of best fit is positive and linear, it can be said that as the applied force is increased, the acceleration of the cart also increases.

the experiment results were compared to those of two other groups to check for accuracy and to compare our experimental models. the experimental model found by group 2 was $y=4.8817 x - 0.03$ as seen in image 2. this model is very close to the one we found. the slope of their model is within 0.13 of our model. similarly, their y intercept is within 0.02 m/s^2 of our found value. this supports our claim because it also shows a direct linear relationship between applied force and acceleration. the experimental model found by group 6 was $y=4.1563 x$ as seen in image 3. these results show a similar relationship to our findings but their values differ slightly. their model has a more shallow slope. this indicates that their data shows that there was less of an acceleration increase as they increased mass. because their results still show a linear, direct relationship like ours, it can be concluded that there may been some systematic error or environmental factors that lessened the acceleration of their cart although it still showed a similar trend.

the theoretical equation is $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$. the experimental mathematical model is $a=c1 w+c2$. the reason the experimental and theoretical model are different is because the experiment wasn’t conducted in a perfectly controlled environment. this may have led to a slight skew as forces other than the hanging weight are present. these could be the force of air resistance and the force of kinetic friction acting on the system. these would both act against the acceleration of the cart and cause it to display lower than its theoretical value. this shows up in our experimental model because our y intercept is less than one and also in the experimental mathematical model as c2. in a frictionless environment such as the theoretical environment, the y intercept would be zero. although our experimental model is not a perfect representation of what would happen theoretically, our results are very close. a theoretical model that more accurately describes what happened in our experiment is $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$. this model takes into account the fact that there were external forces acting on the cart that wasn’t taken into account by the original theoretical model. essentially this is still the equation $f=m a$. in our experimental model, the mass of the system is represented in the value 4.7231 as this value is representative of 1/(mass system * mass hanging). this would be different if a non-massless string were used. if perhaps a non-massless string were used in this experiment, it would cause our experimental model to have a slope greater, or ever curved, compared to that of a massless string system. as the more string would fall over the pulley, there would be more mass hanging from the pulley creating a greater applied force. this would cause increasing acceleration of the cart. 

there were many potential sources for systematic error in this experiment. there could have been systematic error in the triple beam balance if it was calibrated incorrectly. this would cause all of the mass values to be shifted left or right. another source of systematic error could have been the device that measured the acceleration of the cart. if this were out of calibration it also would have skewed our measurements. random error could have occurred when taking mass measurements as using a triple beam balance does take some patience and accuracy. if the cart were placed on the track crooked or differently between runs it could have affected the acceleration randomly also. to reduce systematic and random error a more accurate and precise balance (perhaps digital) could have been used, or the triple beam balance could have been calibrated beforehand. 

there are some factors that may limit the generalizability of the experiment. being that our experimental model did show the involvement of some air resistance or friction, it is questionable how well the experimental model would scale to other experiments. other constraints include the precision of our measuring tools. with a better balance, a more accurate model may have been reached. 
