conclusion:
In week 1 we investigated whether the Independent Variables (length of string, mass of pendulum, or angle of release) affected the period of the pendulum. For each Independent variable we predicted that if the any of the Independent Variables were increased then the period of the pendulum would increase as well. From the data collected and the graphs that were made, the only Independent Variable that affected the period of the pendulum was length of the string, this can be seen because the data points look like they are more in line than the other Independent Variables that were tested. There is not trend line in Graph 1 and Graph 2, however Graph 3 shows a line that could be considered linear. 
In Week 2 error bars were placed to show which Independent, this was done by first calculating the standard deviation, which is found in Table 7. The standard deviation calculated was standard deviation (sigma) is 0.072846871 and the two standard deviation (2*sigma) is 0.145693742.

In graphs 1 and 2, it is evident that the mass of the pendulum and the angle of release has no relationship to the period of the pendulum because of the R squared value. Graph 1 had a R squared value of 0.20682 and Graph 2 had an R squared value of 0.39226. However, in Graph 3 it had a R squared value of 0.95807, which shows that string length has a relationship with the period of the pendulum. In graph 3, the linear line is within the error bars, however in Week 3 it is shown that it is not linear, however it is a power curve. 

In Week 3, the length of string and period of the pendulum was further examined using a photogate to ensure a more accurate reading. From the data collected, the graph that best fit the data was the power curve and the equation obtained from the graph was $y=0.1175988 x$ and had a R square value of 0.9992. The error bars are present on the graph but they are very difficult to see. In class the theoretical model was rearranged to the experimental model the equation is      $T= 2 \pi \sqrt\frac{l}{g}$       , and when the values were plugged in, T is 1.42 s, the 1.42s is very close to our value on the map which is about 1.5s. Also, in the equation above there are no values that can be plugged in for angle of release or mass of the pendulum, which is another reason why those two Independent Variables do not have a relationship with the period of the pendulum. 

The reason why the R squared value isn’t closer to 1 and why the line doesn’t perfectly go through each point is because there could have been systemic and random error that could have occurred. Systematic errors that could have affected the data include is  weights are not accurate to the actual mass, stop watch may have not been accurate due to the batter strength it can either be too fast or too slow. Random error includes is  stop watch going off too early it would result in a longer period or if the stop watch went off too late it would result in a smaller period, if string length string length was measured incorrectly and it was too long it could increase the period and if the string length was too short it would decrease the period. All of these were made aware before the experiment and they were avoided as much as possible by having each person do the same job, for example one person measured the length of the string, one person timed, and one person released the pendulum to make it more consistent. Also, if the person operating the photogate did not know how to use it, this could affect the data results as well. Out of the two, random error would be more of an issue due to the human error instead of the mechanical error of the systematic error. In the future this could be avoided by repeating the experiment multiple times and making sure that each measurement is collected by one person. 

In conclusion the hypothesis in Table 1 and Table 2 is not supported by the data that was collected. The hypothesis in Table 3 is supported by the data that was collected and is further confirmed during week 2 and week 3 when more data was collected. The length of the string affects the period of the pendulum. 



