discussion and conclusion:

		             in these labs, we investigated what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings. initially, our group believed that mass, angle, and length would all have some sort of effect on the period of the pendulum. the data we collected during lab 01 seemed to somewhat support that idea, though the graphs for mass and angle had more variations in the pattern of the data points than that of length. after putting in the error bars from lab 02, however, it became apparent that mass and angle did not actually influence the period. length was the only variable which had strong support for a relationship between it and period.

		             figure 1 only seems to indicate an upward trend because of the large increase in time between the first and last data points. the middle points do not follow this pattern, however. when we put in error bars, we saw that the data for 6- and 9-degree angles almost completely overlap. the point for 12 degrees then decreases in time, which we initially believed was simply due to random error. the error bars in the graph were not particularly large, but they were not small enough to assume that we accurately obtained an upward trend in our data. if we consider our equivalency criterion of two standard deviations rather than one, there is even greater overlap and the lack of a trend becomes more apparent. our error bars make it clear the lack of a trend in this graph was because small angles do not affect the period of a pendulum.

		             like figure 1, figure 2 without any error bars seems to indicate a rising trend. the differences in time between each point was very small which caused large error bars. the addition of the error bars displayed large overlap between each data point, so we were unable to declare any continuous trend. our equivalency criterion makes it so even the first and last data points have overlapping times. mass appears to have no effect on the period of a pendulum.

		             finally, figure 3 for length gives the most support for an upward trend than the other two variables. this figure contains the smallest error bars of the three since there was a larger range in time. when the error bars are a single standard deviation, there is no overlap between data points. we see the biggest difference in time between the first and last data points in this graph as well. when they are two standard deviations in accordance with our equivalency criterion, though, there is some overlap between the data points of 25 and 30 cm and 30 and 35 cm. while the data does not perfectly support an upward trend, we can conclude that there is one there.

		             the period of a pendulum is found using the following theoretical mathematical model.

		

		the data we found in lab 03 somewhat matches this model.  the equation created by our data in figure 5 does not have a perfect square root, but it is close with an exponential on 0.4424. the model also fits the data extremely well with 99.88% of the data being accounted for with the best fit curve. the data we collected does support the model, though not perfectly.

		             our biggest source of random error was from our timing of the periods. by using a stopwatch in the first and second labs, we introduce human error in the form of slow reaction time and the time it takes to push the start and stop button. it is also difficult to perfectly time when one swing finishes and the next begins. in the second lab, we tried to reduce some of this error by having two people time at once and using the average time, but this does not completely get rid of the random error, hence the need for error bars. in the third lab, we reduced the random error to only 0.001 seconds by using a photogate. this takes away human error in timing the period but may introduce systematic error if the photogate turns out to be improperly calibrated. to fix systematic error, we would first need to identify the amount by which the photogate is off and adjust all the data points by this amount.

		             other sources of random error may include incorrect measurements of string length and angle of release. these can be accounted for through multiple trials of the same variables. there may also be systematic error in the weights if they have been worn or chipped away over time and lost some mass. this can be resolved by adjusting measurements to account for any loss in mass.

		             these experiments were all limited by time and materials. we only have two hours to complete each lab, so we can’t complete that many trials to obtain a large amount of data points. there is only so much mass that we can add to the pendulum, which limits our range of data for mass. similarly, we are limited by the height of the stand used to hold the pendulum, so the string length’s range is also restricted. these limits in data makes our evidence less conclusive since we cannot show the trend over large ranges.