discussion and conclusion



the research question being investigated in this lab is: what impacts the period of a small swing of a pendulum? the independent variables used in this lab are the mass of the pendulum (g), the length of the string (cm), and the angle of release (degrees). the dependent variable throughout this lab was the period of the short swing pendulum (s). the experiment was broken into three labs to determine how and which independent variable affected the dependent variable. the data and tables were studied to obtain errors of uncertainty, equivalency criterion, and error bars. if the error bars overlap this indicates that there is no relationship/effect on the dependent variable from the independent variable, and if they do not overlap this indicates that there is an effect. 

there is no relationship between the independent variable, the angle of release (degrees), and the dependent variable, the period of the pendulum (s). as depicted in table 4, the angle was increased from 4 degrees to 20 degrees, but the period remained fairly constant. the error of uncertainty was 0.038987 which can be seen at the bottom of table 4. the error bars for figure 1 made from the data in table 4 do indeed overlap. since they overlap it means that the values could be within the same range and then the period would not be affected. the angle of release (degrees) has no effect or impact on the period of a pendulum (s). 



the independent variable, the length of the string (cm), has a relationship with the dependent variable, the period of the pendulum (s). in table 5 it is seen that the string length was increased from 40 cm to 160 cm in increments of 40.  the error of uncertainty was 0.533695 which can be seen from the data in table 5. the error bars for figure 2 made from the data in table 5 do indeed overlap. discussed before, overlapping error bars indicate no relationship due to the fact that the values may be the same because they are within range of each other which means the period would not be affected. according to table 5 and figure 2 there is no effect on the period of the short swing pendulum from the length of the string, however the error of uncertainty was unusually high. it can be concluded that this error is high in reference to table 7 where all independent variables were controlled, and the error of uncertainty was 0.028848. based off this more trials were conducted to study the relationship with the length of the string (cm) and the period of the pendulum (s). in table 8 the length of the string was changed from 20 cm to 180 cm in increments of 40 and the error of uncertainty was 0.001 because of the photogate measuring system. figure 5 reflects the data from table 8 and the error bars are very small and do not overlap. in figure 5 it is seen as the length of the string increases, the period of the short swing pendulum increases as well. the error bars not overlapping indicate that the length of the string (cm) does have an impact/effect on the period of a pendulum (s). 



the independent variable, the mass of the pendulum (g), has no relationship with the dependent variable, the period of the pendulum (s). as depicted in table 6, the mass was increased from 50 grams to 210 grams in increments of 40. the period remained fairly constant in relation to the increasing mass. the error of uncertainty was 0.014832 which can be seen at the bottom of table 6. the error bars for figure 3 made from the data in table 6 do indeed overlap. since they overlap it means that the values could possibly be within the same range meaning the values could be the same and thus the period would not be affected. the mass of the pendulum (g) has no effect or impact on the period of a pendulum (s). 

the theoretical model equation for the period of a pendulum that was found is  . the mathematical (experimental) model equation produced this lab was . this model was obtained by finding the slope of figure 5 which was graphed from the data in table 8 which studied the relationship between the length of the string (cm) and the period of the short swing pendulum. the mathematical model produced from this lab does support the theoretical model. if all constants are taken out of both equations, then the only thing left is  () and . both  and  are interchangeable and the only things different are the exponents. the exponents are 0.5 and 0.4439 and they are close enough to yield accurate values. for example, when given a fixed pendulum length, both equations can be used, and the resulting values are close enough so that the mathematical model equation does support the theoretical model equation.

there were many possible random errors as well as systematic errors in this lab and some that could have contributed to the mathematical model equation being slightly different than the theoretical equation. the equations differed between the exponents of .5 and .4439 which would make the difference 0.0561. one possible random errors that could cause this is the photogate measurement system. if the photogate sensor was not directly below the pendulum or the pendulum was swaying, then it would not have been at 0 or equilibrium which would then skew the period (s) of the short swing pendulum. another random error that could have occurred throughout the entire experiment was misreading the angle of release when using a protractor. this would affect the period of the short swing pendulum for the entire experiment and another error that could have also been not measuring the length of the string correctly. another random error that could have also occurred was the person who was using the stopwatch having a delayed/early reaction time and the period of the short swing pendulum would have been skewed. there were many possible random errors, but systematic errors are harder to find and diagnose. some of the systematic errors that could have happened was the stopwatch having the incorrect time, the tape measurer having incorrect markings for the number of centimeters, or the weights were not the right mass as was engraved on the side. some steps taken to reduce the errors were conducting trials to determine the error of uncertainty as seen in table 7 and figure 4. some steps that could be taken to reduce errors are having one person assigned to one task throughout the experiment. in other words, one person would use the stopwatch, another would record the data, another would measure the string length, and another would measure the angle or put the weight on. some additional steps that could be taken to reduce error is to use the same equipment every week so that the systematic error is reduced. 

there were many constraints that occurred in this experiment and some of which could have affected the generalizability of the results obtained. one constraint in this experiment was time. the time period to run a certain amount of trials is limited and therefore only a handful of trials could be run. if more trials were conducted if there was limitless time, then the results could be more accurate and things like the theoretical model equation and the mathematical model equation would be even more similar. another constraint that could have affected the generalizability of the results is the amount of string length and the apparatus height. there was only a certain amount of string length that could be used to test the period of the short swing pendulum. the maximum length of the string that could be used from the apparatus to the floor was about 180 cm as seen in table 8. if the apparatus was higher and there was more string, then more trials could have been conducted and the relationship between the length of the string and the period of the short swing pendulum could have been investigated more resulting in more data. this would have improved the results. in addition, another constraint was the equipment. the equipment used in the separate labs may not have been the same throughout the entire experiment thus our results may have been skewed. if this constraint was removed and the same equipment was used for every lab then our values and data would be more precise resulting in better data.