conclusion and discussion 

the purpose of this lab was to find a mathematical relationship between applied force and the acceleration of a system. the equation the mathematical model will be based on is $a=\frac{f}{m}$. the f is sum of forces on the system and the m is the mass of the system. the a is the acceleration or slope of the velocity vs time graph. after analyzing the free body diagrams of the cart and hanging mass the resulting equation is x. based off of this new equation we can see that the weight of the bobbers is the applied force acting on the system. thus for the first lab period we hypothesized that as the applied force increased so would the acceleration. we then set out to test this hypothesis by varying the weight of the bobbers and taking the slope of the graph produced on the lab computer. table 2 shows the data that was collected. after obtaining all the data needed we created graph 1 which proves the hypothesis correct. from graph 1 a mathematical model was created $y=0.0036 x+0.1211$. this experimental model supports the theoretical equation $a=\frac{f}{m}$ and experimental equation $a=c1 w+ c1$ because c1 is 1 divided by the total mass of the system then multiplied by the force of the system. the variable c2 is zero in the theoretical equation because in theory there is no error. however there was error in our experiment due to the computer system therefore the lab protocol told us to use 0.001 m/s^2 as the uncertainty. that is why our equation has the c2 term, this term accounts for the uncertainty and error made in the experiment. this also means that there is an external force acting on the system. if there were no external forces the cart would have moved only by the weight of the bobbers. but the cart moved anyway meaning that there was an external force of kinetic friction acting on the cart due to the ramp. 

since the cart and hanging mass are connected by a massless string the acceleration for both objects are the same. but if the cart and hanging weight were connect by a heavy string the acceleration would be different because the mass of the string would cause tension. also the two masses would have traveled in different distances and the sum of forces would be different thus the acceleration would be different. 

random error for this experiment is that when weighing the bobbers and the cart we were not as accurate as we thought. thus impacting our calculations and not having an accurate mathematical model. this could have been prevented by using an analytical scale that was recently calibrated. a systematic error is that the air track has friction. our mathematical model and set of equations were based off of an environment that has no friction but that was not possible to accomplish. the air track is a better option for a surface than any other surface since the friction is minimal. 

a constraint for this experiment is also a systematic error. we assumed that the air track has no friction but we know that to be not true. this impacts theoretical model because we did not account for the friction. also we do not know the coefficient of friction thus truly unable to have it be a contributing factor to the experiment. 

group 5’s data and conclusion supports our data. group 5 conculed that the more force applied to the system the acceleration will increase. this was the same consluion that we reached. while their equation contained a neighative c2 term, a different c1 term and the group had a different mass of their system. these were the only difference. even with these differences our groups reached the same conclusion.

 
group 3’s data and conclusion supports our data. group 3 conculed that the more force applied to the system the acceleration will increase. this was the same consluion that we reached. while their equation contained a neighative c2 term, a different c1 term and the group had a different mass of their system. these were the only difference. even with these differences our groups reached the same conclusion.

