conclusion

	the research question we sought to address was, “what impacts the period of a pendulum for large swings?” we originally performed three separate exercises with the aim of discovering a correlation between period and either mass, length, or release angle of a pendulum. the experiment with release angle showed a slight correlation, however, further statistical analysis using 2 for error bars showed there was no statistical significance to the correlation we found. this is shown by the overlapping error bars in graph 1. the experiment for mass showed no correlation to the period which can be seen in graph 2. the length of string showed a strong correlation, however, due to overlap in error bars in graph 3, no claim could be made with significant evidence regarding the effect of the string length. upon further investigation using a much more precise method of measurement (a motion detection program), a strong correlation was found between length of string and period of pendulum. this can be seen in graph 4. also note that the standard deviation was given for the device and the error bars drawn onto graph 4 were not visible and therefore do not overlap, meaning the relationship found is statistically significant.

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is 2. in this equation t represents the period, l represents length, and g represents gravitational acceleration. the mathematical model that fit our trendline best, however, was a linear relationship shown as $y=b + m x$    the equation for the trendline in graph 4 was      $y=0.0115 x + 0.7964$      the r value for this line was .999, meaning that this line was the best fit for the data. therefore, the data does not support the theoretical mathematical model.

	in the original experiment on 29 august 2018, there were many sources of error. the scale used did not appear to be calibrated as precisely as it should have been which would’ve been a systematic error. the random error in this lab was due to the fact that one person had to release the pendulum while another timed the period. this led to a disconnect in times and therefore a high standard deviation which is why preliminary results showed that the relationship was not statistically significant. the next investigation mitigated some of this random error by leaving the timing of the period up to a computer and measurement device, meaning the only random error left was drawing back the pendulum at too great or too little of an angle, which could explain why our results favor a linear model instead of the theoretical model. the constraints of this lab were that of the timing error and that this was not a perfect pendulum. the way the string fit, and the presence of air resistance would have slowed the pendulum down over time. however, this would have been negligible and should not have changed our results especially over one swing.