discussion

	the research question in this lab was to figure out what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings. to determine the answer to this question we performed three labs, during the first lab we tested three possible factors that could affect the period of a pendulum. the three factors were mass of the pendulum, length of the string, and angle of release. we tested each independent variable in the lab to come up with the results to determine which factor(s) affect the period. for the mass of the pendulum, the data in table 1a and figure 1 shows that there was no correlation between mass and time of the period. when looking at angle of release, the data in table 2a and figure 2 also show no correlation between the angle and period time. finally, we investigated the string length, the data represented in table 3a and 3 shows that there is a positive (possibly linear) correlation between string length and time of the period. for lab 2 we set out to find the scale error of the photo gate. we ran a series of tests with the same controls which were 78.5cm string length, 90g mass, and 20-degree angle. we found the scale error to be .001 and the standard deviation to be .0177. 

	in the third and final lab period we performed the string vs. period experiment again with the photogate to avoid human error. the data shown in table 4a and figure 4 represent the results that were found. as stated in the graph we found the relationship to have a power curve in the graph because the r^2 value was closest to 1 in that relationship than in any other. the equation of our line was $t=1.5179 l^{0.164}$ which fits very well with the mathematical model of $t=2\pi \left(\frac{l}{g}\right)^{0.5}$. 

	possible points of error could have been systematic or random. random errors could have been change in string length between runs without our knowledge, we overcame this by measuring before each run. a systematic error in lab 1 was improper timing of the period, we overcame this error by letting the pendulum swing three periods and taking that time and divide it by three. also, in lab three we cut out human error of timing by using the photogate which only has a .001 scale error.