conclusion:

in this experiment, a mathematical model was first developed to predict the motion of an object to find its acceleration due to an applied force, which was then applied to estimate the force needed to reach a desired acceleration. to do so, an air track was prepared, and an appropriate car is placed on the track with a string attached to it, which ran over a pulley. from this, bobbles were placed on the car to add to the mass of the system. then, a bobble is moved from the car to the overhanging string to add to the applied force, then the track is turned on, and using a photogate the acceleration is recorded. this procedure is done so the mass of the system, 183.46g, is kept constant, making the relationship between acceleration and the applied hanging force direct, with the slope being 1/m. this process is repeated with each bobble to find each corresponding acceleration, producing the data in table 2. from here, the data is plotted to produce a linear graph as seen in figure 1 with an equation of $a=4.7909 f + 0.05$ and r^2 is 0.9984, indicating that the points accurately follow a linear relationship. the direct relationship between the acceleration of the system and the applied force onto the system is further supported by outside data. in figure 2, team odo did the same procedure with a system mass of 182.4g, and likewise produced a linear graph with an equation of $a=5.1169 f - 0.0112$ and in figure 3, team rom had a system mass of 214.77g producing also a linear graph of $a=5.259 f - 0.0096$. this seems to further suggest that the relationship between acceleration and the applied force is a direct relationship as predicted prior to this lab’s investigation. however, while the experimental model and theoretical models agree upon the relationship between the mass and the applied force on the system, the experimental model deviates from it in terms of the slope and intercepts, or rather, the lack thereof. the theoretical model states that the acceleration of the system should be 1 divided by the mass of the system times the applied force, or $a=\frac{f}{m}$. however, the mass of our system was .18346 kg, meaning the slope should have been 5.451, which is different from the slope of figure 1, which was 4.7909, suggesting that either some error occurred in the measurement of our mass, or there was some mass in the system we didn’t take into consideration. furthermore, the experimental model does not have any form of y-intercept in its representation, whereas our model had an intercept of 0.052. this is most likely due to possible other forces that our model and experimental design did not take into consideration, such as possible friction between the cart and the track, and any possible drag forces acting on the cart while it is in motion. the lack of consideration of these forces would represent a systematic error of our experiment, as the amount of force not considered would be relatively consistent with each trial, leading to the constant shift reflected in the y-intercept. another consideration not taken with our experimental model is that the procedure assumes that the pulley and string are massless, which would then not affect the system. however, the string and the pulley both have their own mass, meaning that just like the cart, inertial forces will be present. this means that right as the cart starts moving, the system experiences greater resistance to the motion at the start of the motion in comparison to after it has been in motion from the pulley, modulating the acceleration. however, since the strings mass would have been constant it would not affect the uniform acceleration. as mentioned, there may have been a systematic error in the mass, most likely due to the scale if it was improperly calibrated, and the constant shift up may be due to some friction between the cart and air track that is unaccounted for. another possible systematic error could have been in the photogates used to measure the acceleration, as the system gave appropriate error bars to apply to its calculated values. 

for the constraints of this lab, we assumed that the drag forces and frictional forces were negligible, as attempting to integrate them into the model would prove difficult and troublesome without the proper sensitive equipment. also, it was assumed that the pulley and string were massless since inertial forces would have to be considered and the mass of these items would have to be integrated into the mass of the system if considered.