discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this investigation was to examine the research question of, what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? three factors were chosen to investigate, mass, release angle, and string length of the pendulum. each factor was tested in a controlled setting obtaining five trials varying the magnitude of the given factor each trial. 

factor one was mass. the data from the experiment conducted (table 5.) indicates that there is no relationship between the mass of a pendulum and the pendulum’s period, the error bars overlapped for each data point using the scale of error ±0.072. while the overall trend follows a linear, almost constant slope as depicted in figure 1., concluding there is no relation between mass and period. 

factor two was aimed at the pendulums angle of release. the data collected (table 6.) was rather sporadic with no real pattern to it. the error bars overlapped for each data point using the scale of error ±0.072, meaning that there was no significant change in the pendulums period. figure 2. suggests that the overall trend is linear and fairly constant, meaning there is no relationship between release angle and period.

factor three looked at length of the pendulum’s string. the data collected (table 7.) show the least amount of overlap between the scale of error (±0.072), indicating the strong possibility of a relationship. examining figure 3. the data begins to follow a nonlinear trend, the line of best fit was found to be one of a powered relationship. an additional experiment was run on length, this time using a photogate to reduce the error scale to ±0.001. the data from this experiment (figure 4) suggest a square root relation $y=0.13435455$    the exponent value is very close to 0.5, which equals square root in exponential form, agreeing with the square root mathematical model. when examining the theoretical model holds true. mass and angle are not involved, hence the no relationship. length still holds a square root relation, grant it we did not consider factors such as 2pi or gravity in testing. 

in conclusion, length impacts the period of a pendulum in a square root relationship, while mass and release angle have no relation. however, there are numerous systematic and random error that could have caused error in the data. systematic ones such as; mis-calibrated timers, mis-marked tape measures and protractors could all cause the data to skew. these errors can be address by correctly calibrating tools before use. random error was observed in the shaking of human hands while measuring, delayed reaction time in timing and accidental additional force added to the release. these errors can cause large standard deviations in the data, and high spread. to minimize this issue replicates of three were conducted when looking at string length and a photogate timer was used for more accurate periods. due to the lack of resources and limitation of time in the classroom setting less thorough testing had to be done.