discussion and conclusion

the research question that was being investigated in this experiment was what impacts the period of a pendulum for a small swing. in order to test this question, there had to be many independent variables which would then be changed and their effect on the period of the pendulum (dependent variable) would be noted. for this experiment, there were 3 independent variables being tested. they are the length of the string attached to the pendulum (cm), the mass of the pendulum (g), and the angle of release of the pendulum (degrees) respectively. the first independent variable was tested by using varying lengths of strings that were attached to the pendulum to see what effect they had on the period of the pendulum. according to figure 1 and table 1, the relationship regarding the length of the string and the period time was that the longer the string (iv), the longer it took to complete a period (dv) and the results were consistent with our original prediction. the second independent variable tested was the mass of the pendulum. the data shown in figure 2 and table 2 shows that the mass of the pendulum (iv) did not substantially affect the time it took to complete a period (dv) and the varying in the data is likely due to human error. this is not consistent with our original prediction which was the heavier the pendulum, the faster it completes a period. lastly, the third independent variable being tested was the effect of the angle of release of the on the period. figure 3 and table 3 shows that the angle of release (iv) had no effect on the time it took to complete a period (dv) which was also not consistent with the original prediction.

since it was known that the only independent variable to have an effect on the period of the pendulum was the length of the string, another trial was conducted by using a photogate so that human error would not be a source of error when using a stopwatch and more accurate data could be obtained. this trials finding confirmed the original findings of the length of the string having an effect on the period of the pendulum. the data on table 4 showed variance of 0.9948. this value was used to insert errors bars into the graph, which were very little, which showed that there was a relationship between the independent variable and the dependent variable. the slope showed a positive relationship between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum. the theoretical equation for this experiment was $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$  which was simplified to  $y=c \sqrt{x}$. our experimental equation was $y=0.3293 x^{0.4006}$.

this lab was prone to many errors. some random errors that could have been a part of this experiment could be that the person using the stopwatch did not start or stop the watch on time or the initial degree of drop was off. to reduce random error, many trials were conducted and the averages were taken to see the correlation between each trial. some systematic errors could have been that the pendulum weights were not exactly accurate due to wear and tear over the lifespan of the weights and/ or the measuring tape not being accurate by having the numbers scratched off of the tape. a way to reduce this error you could use a new tape measure and have new weights to ensure that the timing is precise and accurate. the biggest factor that limited results was time, if there was unlimited time then more trials could have been conducted to get more results which would limit error and give more accurate results.


