discussion and conclusion 



a. the research question that was investigated in this lab was, “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?” 



b. each of the three experiments helped to address this research question throughout the three weeks. in experiment 1, three variables were measured – length of the string, weight of pendulum, and angle of release – in order to determine which affected a pendulum’s period. the original predictions stated that all three variables would have an effect on the pendulum’s period. however, after careful reconsideration in experiment two, we determined that only the length of the string had an effect on the pendulum’s period, and the weight and the angle shouldn’t have a correlation to the period of the pendulum (figures 2 and 3). the longer the length of the string, the longer the period of the pendulum, and vice versa. this relationship can be seen in figure 1 by the nonoverlapping error bars. while the graphs overlap a little bit, it was determined that the length of the string does affect the period of the pendulum. the overlap on the graphs could be remedied by running more trials and using a wider range of string length. the weight of the pendulum and angle of release (figures 2 and 3) do have overlaps within the error bars, indicating that there is no relationships between weight of pendulum and angle of release with the period of the pendulum. in order to get more of an overlap on the error bars and show this relationship more, more trials should be conducted in order to produce more accurate results. experiments 2 and 3 focused solely on one variable, and that was the length of the string. in experiment 3, the relationship between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum was further determined by conducting more trials and using a photogate to reduce error. error bars were shown in this graph, but were hardly visible due to the minimal uncertainty given by the photogate. 



c. the theoretical mathematical model is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, where t is the period (sec), l is the length of the string (cm), and g is equal to gravity (9.8 m/s2). once the equation is rearranged, it can be written as $t = 0.201 l^{0.5}$. after determining that length of the string was the only variable measured that affected the period of the pendulum, this model was used to calculate the mathematical model for our experiment. the given mathematical model compares with the mathematical model that was determined in figure 4 which was $t = 0.2309 l^{0.4948}$. figure 4 also displays an r2 value of 0.9981. an r2  value that is close to 1.00, such as ours, means that the line of best fit fits the data well, and that it is not linear. in this case, the line of best fit can be given by $y = \sqrt{x}$ or $t = \sqrt{l}$. this equation and the values calculated supports the claim that only the length of the string, rather than weight and angle of release, has an effect on the period of the pendulum. 



d. both systematic and random errors were present within the three weeks of this experiment. systematic errors are “one-sided,” and are due to an error in the measuring device, giving measurements that are either higher or lower than the true value. these types of errors, if present, cannot be reduced by taking more measurements or taking the average of the measurements. in week one, a slight crack in the protractor was apparent, which could have made measurements for the angle of release to be inaccurate. this error was solved by using a new protractor, and comparing the original measurements to those of a new one. other systematic errors that could have occurred would be when taking measurements of the length or mass. for length, the numbers on the tape measure could have been rubbed off, making it difficult to read exact measurements. this would be solved by acquiring a new tape measure and comparing values to determine any discrepancies. likewise, if the weights added to the pendulum were not correct, then errors could be solved by weighing the weights before attaching them to the pendulum to ensure their weight is as labeled. random errors are “two-sided,” and are due to the chosen experimental technique. these types of errors can be reduced by repeating the measurements or averaging the measurements. in our experiment, the biggest source of random error was approximating the measurements when reading the length of the string, or the angle of release. in order to remedy these errors, doing more trials or averaging the measurements together would produce more accurate results. lastly, random error arose by not starting or stopping the stop watch at the correct time. this was remedied in week three of the experiment by using a photogate to produce more accurate readings of the pendulum’s period.  



e. many constraints in this experiment could have limited the generalizability of the results. again, random errors like those previously mentioned would have given inaccurate readings and limited the accuracy of the results found. another constraint in this experiment could be the amount of trials executed. if time permitted, multiple trials could have been executed in order to ensure accurate measurements. in this set of experiments specifically, the relatively small amount of string was a constraint. if a longer amount of string length was given, a wider range of trials could have been taken. another constraint in this experiment was not using the photogate for weeks one and two, and only in week three. the photogate was a more accurate way of measuring the period of the pendulum in seconds rather than using a stopwatch. the stopwatch could have constrained the experiment and data collected if it was not started or stopped at the correct time. this would have made the data skewed and might not have shown that string length does affect the period of a pendulum.