discussion and conclusion

the goal of the experiment was to determine the effect that an applied force has on the acceleration of a system, and to determine an experimental model for the relationship between applied force and acceleration.

the experiment addresses the research question by highlighting a linear relationship between acceleration and applied force.  this is consistent with newton’s 2nd law.  the mathematical model was determined from the results (figure 1).  there was no overlap between the uncertainties for each measurement and the resulting mathematical model for the relationship between force and acceleration is the equation of the linear trendline.  the equation is $a=0.0516 f - 0.0708$ where a is the acceleration of the system, and f is the force acting on the system.  the theoretical model for the relationship between force and acceleration is net $f_{net} =m a$.  using the theoretical model, in relationship to the experimental model, the slope of the linear fit is equal to 1/(mass of the system), and the intercept is equal to an unknown force, divided by the mass of the system.  
the comparison of the experimental model to the theoretical model brings up the question of what forces are making up the net force.  the hanging mass is the force that was varied as an independent variable but is not the only force acting on the system.  each point of contact that the system had is the location of another force.  these other forces could be due to is   friction of the string on the pulley, friction of the cart on the air-track, air resistance, or the mass of the string used.  there is no way to determine the nature of the force, but its affect on the system can be approximated by the y-intercept of the trendline (figure 1).  the mathematical supports the re-worked theoretical model by approximating the unknown force through the y-intercept.  
several random errors could have occurred during the experiment.  one source of error could be due to deciding which data in datastudio to select for the acceleration.  the acceleration was found by computing the derivative of the velocity function of the system.  multiple data points were selected over a time span, but these data points selected could be different per trial.  to reduce this error, when a clear linear velocity plot was observed, the data selected was one point from the edge of the line on each side.  this insured that no deceleration due to elasticity or the slow acceleration from the moment the air-track was turned on were observed.  another source of random error could be due to the introduction of friction.  this friction may not have been uniform for each trial.  the air-track used had no way to ensure that no friction was introduced on the system.  the effect of friction was assumed to be negligible.
the data from both groups (figure 2 and figure 3) back up the results of the experiment, that force and acceleration have a linear relationship.  both findings support the experimental data by illustrating a positive, linear relationship between force applied and acceleration.  both groups had the same conclusion, that the experimental model $a=\frac{f-f_u}{m}$ relates to the theoretical model for force and accelerationthe experiment was conducted on earth, so would have no ability to be extrapolated to different gravitational environments, as the acceleration due to gravity was not measured.  the models are only able to be used for uniform acceleration.  due to the mass of the string, which was assumed to be negligible, the system may not have been acceleration uniformly, therefore, the experiment cannot be extrapolated to non-uniform acceleration conditions.  if the string were to have a heavy mass, this would cause the acceleration to increase, as the hanging mass increases as the string goes around the pulley.  instead of having a uniform acceleration (da/dt is 0), the acceleration would have a positive derivative.
