Discussion and Conclusion
The research question addressed in this lab was how does does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes. For this experiment the system included the cart and the hanging force. The mass was held constant for system at 178.5 g and the applied force is the hanging force of the system. The hanging force was the independent variable because that is what was changed for each trial. Table 1 and Figure 1 both show our results of a linear relationship between the hanging force and the acceleration of the cart. As the hanging force is decreased the acceleration of the cart also decreased. The error bars in Figure 1 are too small to see because the uncertainty was below 0.0075 for each trial.. The linear relationship between the hanging force and the acceleration of the system is also shown in Table 2 by lab group 6 and Table 3 by lab group 4 when the same experiment was replicated by two other groups in the lab. Both lab groups used a hanging force in mass (g) compared to our hanging force which we measured in Newtons. Though the units were different the same results were found that as the mass or the force decreased so did the acceleration of the system. There were no other differences in the experimental design between the other two groups and our group results. All group findings supported our hypothesis that the acceleration will change as the hanging force changes and our prediction of a linear relationship as the hanging force decreases so does the acceleration. 
The theoretical equation for this experiment is $F=m a$ where the sum of the forces equals the mass of the system times acceleration. The single force is the hanging mass in grams. The experimental mathematical model is from our graph and is $y = c1 x+c2$ where c1 is equal to 0.0051 and c2 is -0.0173, and x is the acceleration from the equation in Figure 1. Both of these models fit with our data that the hanging force equals the mass of the system times our acceleration. If you enhance the equation to find the acceleration you get $a =\frac{m_h g + f_f}{m_{sys}}$. Mhang equals the hanging force in grams, g is equal to gravity which is 9.8 m/s^2,  Msys equals the mass of the system in grams, and Ff equals the friction force. Even though this is assumed to be frictionless there still could be a little friction to account for, which is a systematic error if not accounted for. These models fit with our experiment if you plug in each value into the enhanced equation you should get an acceleration value that fits into slope of the graph which fits into the experimental lab equation for the graph. If there is a heavy string connecting the hanging force to the cart then you would just have to account that mass into the system total which remains constant. As long as the mass is accounted for and added to the cart equally the relationship for the hanging force and the acceleration would still be a linear relationship as the hanging force decreases so the the acceleration. 
A possible random error in this experiment would be when releasing the cart not adding any extra force to the cart to resisting the cart from moving. This would result in the acceleration being incorrectly measured. Adding extra force would cause a higher acceleration and resistance would cause a lower measurement of acceleration. This error was reduced in our experiment by having the same person release the cart each time so the release was the same each time and allowed for more accurate measurements. Another way to fix this error and obtain a more accurate measurement you could use a device that lets go of the cart without adding or resisting force on it each time. This would keep each measurement more accurate and result in less uncertainty due to human errors.