Discussion
The research question being assessed is the effect of the mass of weights, lengths of strings and the angle of release of the weight on the period of a pendulum for small swings. The method involved in testing if the measured results were significant enough to draw a conclusion was drawing a straight horizontal line through the measured points, and if the line passes through all the points or the error bars associated with them, no change can be concluded. Microsoft Excel was used to calculate the standard errors and to form the tables and graphs.
Figure 1 shows the results attained for testing of the effect of mass. A horizontal line passes through all of the error bars, indicating no effect on the period of the pendulum. Figure 3 represents the investigation of the effect of the angle of release on the pendulum period. The relationship was fairly linear as can be seen and so no effect was concluded. The experiment with the length of the string however, generated some very interesting results. The points were so different and with such a small standard error, no horizontal line can fit through all the points, or their error bars, so the conclusion of a present relationship was made.
In order to be able to test this further, we used a photogate to measure the time for one swing to remove the random error presented by a person timing the period. We examined the effect of the length of the string again with this new modification and the results were graphed and tabulated.
We were exposed to a set of possible random errors caused by inaccuracies resulting from reaction time in timing the periods and the differences in the masses from the value on them. We used the photogate the second time around, doing away with the timing issue, but the masses were assumed to be exactly what value was written on them, but in future experiments, the results would be more accurate if they are measured. Not much of a systematic error was noticed. Most errors rested on the experimental technique. If the masses were weighed, then maybe the balance or scale could have been a source of systematic error.
There are ways the experiment could have been done with a little bit more control over factors such as air pressure and the stiffness of the rope. Also, this is the combined report of an experiment done by a small group of people. The conclusions can be more generalized if the entire lab result from the different lab groups is taken into consideration. At the end of three weeks of experimentation and data collection, only the length of the string, out of the mass of the weights and the angle of release, showed any relationship with the period of the pendulum for small swings. That relationship is expressed in the form of a power equation, which was close to the theoretical model equation when converted. From the data collected, we can conclude that the length of the string impacts the period of a pendulum.
The resulting graph was a power graph, not a linear graph. The equation given when the units were converted into the SI unit of length (m) was $y=2.0991 x^{0.4125}$. The actual theoretical model is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$  where T is period, Pi is 3.19…, L is the length in meters and g is the acceleration due to gravity, 9.81 m/s2. The equation converted into the power form gave us 2.007x0.05. As seen, the values obtained are very close to that in the theoretical model. The other factors which didn’t affect the period of the swing generated graphs that seemed to have linear models that we couldn’t compare with the theoretical model.