discussion and conclusion

	the question of what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings was answered by testing the three variables of string length, mass and the angle of release. when the independent variable was string length, as the string length increased, the period of the pendulum swing also increased. looking off table 4, the average length of time it took for the pendulum to swing increased by about 0.08 to 0.1 when increasing the length of the string by 5cm. at 15cm, the average time was 0.848 seconds while the 35cm average time was 1.26 seconds. also looking at figure 1, the data points seem to follow a linear path, and the two standard deviation error bars show that there is very little overlap between data points. this signifies that there is a significant statistical difference in the period of the pendulum swing and the length of the string. this agreed with the prediction on hand on how when the string length increases so will the period it takes for the pendulum to complete one full swing due to it having to go over a longer path. the second independent variable that was studied was mass. from the data points in table 5, the length of time it took for the pendulum to complete a swing was around the 1.44 second mark for all five of the measurements being tested for. also, in figure 2, it shows strong considerable overlap of the standard error bars of two standard deviations which signifies that there is no statistical significance that mass affects the period of pendulum swing. this disagrees with our prediction because it was predicted mass would cause the period to be faster when the mass increases. mass has no effect on the period of the pendulum swing. if the mass was huge then it still would have no effect on the pendulum. if the length of string remains the same, the period won’t change. this is probably because gravity affects objects the same way regardless of mass, so mass won’t have any effect on the swinging motion. the last variable observed was the angle at which the pendulum was released at. starting at 5 degrees and going up increments of five to 25 degrees, the time it took to complete the swing was on average to be around 1.90 seconds in table 6. this was true for all the angles measured. then in figure 3, the error bars overlap came out to have almost perfectly within each other, so this shows that there is no effect of angle of release and the time it takes to finish the pendulum swing. this agrees with our prediction of that angle of release will have no effect because even though at bigger angles, the speed is higher, it still must go a farther distance and vice versa with smaller angles. this evens out, and the timing shouldn’t change.

	in the third lab, the use of a photogate allowed us to get a more accurate depiction of the time because of its use to take around 30-40 trials in a lot less time and it removes a lot of the human error out of collecting the data. with more precise data, we can get a best fit line from the graph. 

figure 4. graph depicting the string length versus time with use of a photogate. error bars are present of +/- 0.001 but are too small to see.

the best fit line fit a power model best with the r^2 coefficient being closest to 1.0. the theoretical model equation for this relationship is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. the experimental model was found out to be $y=2.0213 x^{0.4059}$ which when you solve for the constants in the theoretical model, the experimental model is very close to the theoretical. this means you can be close to finding the theoretical “true” value of how much time it takes for a pendulum to complete a swing when you put in a certain string length. 

errors that could be encountered in this lab are largely human based. having people switch up the jobs can create random error because people can have different ideas on how they believe a certain measurement should be taken. this random error can be solved by taking many trials so that the true value is closer to the mean we get. systematic errors that could be encountered are ones such as calibration of the photogate is off, or the measuring tape has been stretched out after repeated uses. this error can’t be readily fixed without knowing the true value or how much the calibration is off because this throws all the data points to one side of the true value. if you know how much the calibration is off then you can apply the difference to get the true value by assigning each of the data points a certain percentage off. for example, if the calibration is five percent higher, the you make each data point five percent lower to get accurate readings. another random error that can be encountered is when measuring the angle of release, the hand moves a little bit so it’s not always at the same angle which could’ve been problematic if angle of release had effect on the period length.

constraints of this experiment is how human based it is. with better equipment, better and more accurate data points can be plotted. using a stop watch and the naked eye to judge a complete swing has room for a lot of error. the photogate was the closest thing to finding the length of time to complete a swing for the pendulum. using a stop watch causes the human to have to eyeball very generally when the swing has completed and then take time to stop the stop watch. there’s tiny errors that data collectors can run into in this experiment. also, using instruments such as the protractor and the measuring tape can also leave room for error due to how the exact degree of the angle of the length in centimeters can’t be found so some things are more generalized. in conclusion, string length was the only variable to influence the time it took for the pendulum to complete one full swing. the other two variables of mass and angle release had no effect. this was plotted and found out through graphs with two standard deviation error bars. 


