discussion

	the purpose of the lab was to determine how the acceleration of a system changes when the applied force changes? the lab was carried out by having a system, the cart and 8 bobbers, run along a track while measuring the acceleration as the force applied on the cart changed. there was a string attached to the cart and after each trial one of the bobbers was added to the end of the string, adding more applied force on the cart. 

	as seen in table 1, the experiment held the mass of the system constant, at 187.6 g with an uncertainty of 0.05g, as well as the distance the cart started at, 900 cm with an uncertainty of 0.05 cm. the uncertainty values were calculated by dividing the smallest measurement available by 2. i predicted that there would be a positive linear relationship between force applied and the acceleration of the system. the data collected in table 2 was collected during the experiment itself. table 3 is a graphical representation of the data collected in table 2. the graph in table 3 shows that there was a positive linear relationship between force applied and acceleration. the line of best fit was chosen to be linear and resulted in the equation $y=4.539 x + 0.02$ with an r2 value of .98, which shows that the points are very close to being aligned in a line. 

	in the obtained equation from table 3, $y=4.539 x + 0.02$, y is the acceleration and x is the force applied. through manipulation of a known equation that relates acceleration and force applied, an equation for this specific experiment was determined to be $a = \frac{m g}{m_{sys}}+ \frac{f_f}{m_{sys}}$. as shown in the equation, friction is another force, along with air resistance, that could have shown up in the experimental context. in the obtained equation, these external forces equal 0.00617 n, which found by multiplying the y-intercept by 1/constant. in our experiment there was a very small amount of external forces.

the constant in our obtained equation should be equal to 1/mass of system. the constant we theoretically should have obtained was 5.33, which is slightly larger than our experimental constant, 4.539. if the mass of the string was high enough to influence the acceleration, there would still be uniform acceleration because the mass of the system would still be constant. 

a systematic error that could have occurred could be an incorrect initial reading of the mass of the system, to reduce this error our group could have used multiple scales to measure the mass of the system to ensure accuracy. random error that could have occurred could have been with the monitors used to detect the acceleration, which could have been reduced by taking multiple trials at each force and taken the average. lastly, random error that could have occurred was that not all the bobbers were the same mass, to reduce this error our group should have measured the mass of each bobber when it was added. some limitations to the experiment that would restrict the generalizability of our results is the low amount of trials, the applied forces having a small range, and the track was frictionless which is not always realistic in the world.

 	the data obtained from other groups in class are very comparable to the data that my group obtained. group 1 obtained an experimental equation that was  $y=0.0053 x-6 10^{-6}$ which is measured in grams rather than kilograms, (mocniak, t., patel, p., saucer, a.). if their measurements would have been in kilograms, their obtained constant is slightly higher than ours. their external forces acting on their system was calculated to be 0.0011n which is less then the external forces calculated for acting on our system, (mocniak, t., patel, p., saucer, a.). the other group that was compared to our data also had similar results as us. their constant was slightly higher, 5.0372, as well as their external forces, 0.0074, (brassfield, m., chhang, r., enders, a., mcully, c.). while the obtained experimental equations were slightly different in obtained values, the positive linear relationship still held true in the other groups, which concurred with our findings.