Discussion and Conclusion

The use of the photogate allowed for the elimination of some random errors such as the time delay between the stopwatch starting and the release of the pendulum and the time delay between the stopwatch ending when the period was completed, both of which would have led to overestimation of the true period time. The photogate also prevented any systematic error of the stopwatch since the photogate had a built-in computerized timer and sensor. It was able to reduce the uncertainty of the human experiment by .137 seconds due to its more technical and precise measuring capabilities. Without the photogate, a way in which to reduce the amount of uncertainty would have been to have the same person release the pendulum and start the stopwatch as both actions would have been more synchronous. Even with such precise equipment as the photogate, there is bound to be room for error, especially in such a setting. The experimental space was limited and only allowed for a range of testable possibilities. The results reflected this and had more space been available, more extensive data would have been possible. The error bars showed the uncertainties of the measurements and accounted for the errors so that the data was more flexible during analysis.	

The original research question considering all variables was, “What variables will affect the period of a short-swing pendulum?” The three variables tested were the string length, the mass of the pendulum, and the angle of release. The first independent variable- angle of release- showed no relationship to the period of the pendulum. That was evident with Graph 1, as its data points followed a slight quadratic curve but did not make sense logically. Keeping in mind the equivalency criterion, a relationship seemed possible but too difficult to say with the amount of uncertainty present.  The second independent variable- the mass of the pendulum- showed a very erratic pattern shown in Graph 2. The error bars and the equivalency criterion offer a possibility of a relationship but cannot be said with much certainty. The final independent variable- the length of the string- exemplified a relationship to the period of the pendulum in Graph 3. The error bars and equivalency criterion showed that the data had an almost linear positive linear correlation. The data in Graph 4 measured by the photogate had a considerable amount less of uncertainty and fit the equation of a power curve. The error bars were so small that the power curve and relationship was further justified due to the minute uncertainty present. The $R=0.999$ of the line said that the data points fit the power curve with a 99.92% accuracy. Due to this observation, it was concluded that the only true independent variable that had any effect on the pendulum period was the length of the string. The equation for the curve was 

$y=0.11770264 x$


The theoretical model was modified to fit the experimental model as follows is 
	


where  equals the acceleration due to Earth’s gravity,  equals the length of the string, and  equals the time it takes for the period to be completed. The completion of this equation allows for the conclusion that through this experiment a full model could be found. The pendulum period can be predicted using the experimental model given the length of the string being used. The predicted value would be within .002 seconds with a 95% confidence level according to the equivalency criterion. The development of the full model supported the claim that string length was the only variable of the three chosen that had any effect on the period of the short-swing pendulum. 
