discussion and conclusion:
as stated above the research question for this lab was, “how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force on the system changes?”. in other words, labs 05 and 06 were dedicated to finding the relationship between the mass of the system being tested (the cart, the string, and the bobbers) and the acceleration. the relationship we are testing is the one shown by newton’s laws. the data shown the in the lab 05 graph has a positive linear relationship that supports our prediction that as the hanging force increased, the acceleration would also increase. the error bars do not overlap so we can be sure that the data points are different enough to be not equivalent and actually form a linear relationship. we compared our data and analysis results to the results of group 4 in our lab section. group 4’s results (shown below in red) supported our findings because their mathematical model was $y=0.051 x - 0.039$ which shows that they also found a positive linear relationship between the hanging mass and the acceleration.
we also compared our lab 05 results to group 6’s results (shown below in blue). group 6 found their mathematical model to be $y=0.533 x + 0.015$ which also shows that the relationship between acceleration and the hanging mass is positive and linear. 
the line of best fit from the graph of our data gave us the equation $y=0.0051 x - 0.0173$. theoretically, the y intercept should be 0 because a hanging force of 0 should give us an acceleration of 0 but -0.0173 is reasonably close when accounting for environmental factors like air resistance that are not included in the theoretical model. the mathematical model for this lab is the equation from newton’s second law of motion $f=m a$. these two equations allowed us to complete the lab 06 challenge where we found the hanging force needed to reach a given acceleration. to find this we manipulated newton’s second law equation to equal acceleration. this ends up being $a=\frac{f}{m}$ with m being the mass of the system.
in the lab 05 questions it asked if the string attached to the cart and the bobbers had appreciable mass, how would the motion and acceleration be affected. as a group we predicted that as long as the mass of the string was included in the mass of the system, then the string having appreciable mass would not affect the motion and the acceleration would stay uniform. this is because the mass if the system must stay consistent since it is the control variable. in this lab, possible errors include  these errors could be reduced by…. constraints of this experiment included not being able to entirely negate the effect of friction and air resistance leading to a non-zero y intercept for our mathematical model in lab 05. this skews the results slightly from the theoretical model making the results not perfectly generalizable since the theoretical model excludes any effect of air resistance and friction and states that the line of best fit should pass through (0,0) because if the system had no hanging force applied it would have no acceleration. 