discussion and conclusion

	what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?  in the first of the three experiments conducted, preliminary data was gathered on angle vs time, length vs time, and mass vs time, to determine which independent variable affected the period of the pendulum.  for angle vs time, data was collected for angles of 10, 15, 20, and 30 degrees in table 4 and the average time of one period was plotted in figure 1.  the results of this variable suggested that the larger the angle, the longer the period due to the slight trend gathered in table 4 with 30 degrees not following the trend.  however, figure 1 shows that the differences in values are minimal as the error bars form a straight line across the graph and that there is little to no effect by the angle on the period of the pendulum.  this conclusion denies the prediction made at the beginning of the experiment that the larger the angle, the longer the period. 

	for mass vs time, data was collected for masses of 50g, 150, 210g, and 250g in table 6 and the average time of one period was plotted in figure 3.  the results of this variable suggested that the larger the mass, the faster the period due to the trend data in table 6 with 250g not following the trend.  despite this trend, figure 3 shows that the differences in values are minimal as the error bars form a straight line across the graph, indicating that there is little to no effect by the mass on the period of the pendulum.  this conclusion disagrees with the prediction made at the beginning of the experiment that the large the mass, the faster the period.  

	for length vs time, data was collected for string lengths of 25cm, 50cm, 100cm, and 175cm in table 5 and the average time of one period was plotted in figure 2.  the results of this variable suggested that the longer the string, the longer the period.  unlike mass and angle, figure 2 for the length confirms with error bars at two standard deviations that the data is significantly distinct as the error bars do not overlap, indicating the length of the string effects the period of the pendulum.  the standard deviation for these experiments was conducted in part two of the experiment with data gathered in table 7.  the 95% confidence level of two standard deviations was determined to be 0.134 from the data collected.  this conclusion cements the prediction made at the beginning of the experiment that the longer the string length, the longer the period.  since it was concluded that the length had an effect on the period of the pendulum, secondary data was gathered using a photogate, to achieve more accurate timing, at string lengths of 25cm, 50cm, 100cm, 150cm, and 200cm in table 8.  the average times of each length were plotted in figure 4.  figure 4 continued to confirm that the longer the string, the longer the period.  once plotted, a trendline was fitted to the data points to give and r2 value as close to 1 as possible.  the trendline that best fit the data points was a power trendline with an r2 value of 0.99869 and an equation of $y=0.1205016 x$.  

	in determining the period of a pendulum, the given model for the pendulum period is, .  the lab data gathered in part three of this experiment produced the mathematical model of $y=0.1205016 x$.  in comparing these two models, the lab data model should have a coefficient in front of “x” closer to 2.  the data doesn’t support the coefficient being closer to two because the lab data was gathered in centimeters rather than meters.  if the data were to be converted to meters, the coefficient in the lab data model would be closer to the expected value of 2.  

	some random errors that may have factored into the data collected include the reaction time on the stopwatches to time the lengths of the periods, the proper setting of the angle for release each trial, and the assumption that the mass of the weights is the same as what the label states.   these random errors could have been reduced in this experiment by resetting and checking all measurements after each trial to make sure it was consistent throughout the trial run.  some systematic errors that may have factored into the data collected include errors in the stopwatch and ruler themselves.  these systematic errors could be fixed if they were clearly identified, so the problem in the tool could be fixed.  some constraints in these experiments include adequate space, time, and resources.  if this experiment were completed again, having more space would allow for more ranges of string lengths to narrow down the data.  having more time and resources would allow for more trial to be run in the experiment to gather more accurate data for averages that could reduce the random error.