Discussion and Conclusion
In this lab, the research question asked what would impact the period of the pendulum for small swings. To test this research question, the group came up with three independent variables that would be tested separately to determine if they effected the period of a pendulum. These three independent variables were the mass of the weights placed at the end of the string for the pendulum, the length of the string holding the weights for the pendulum, and lastly, the angle of release for the string and the weights for the pendulum. 
When the mass of the weights was tested, Table 1 shows the four averages of three periods were all very close numerically. In Figure 1 it is shown that the error bars on the graph all intersect with each other, so there is no evidence that mass effects the period of a pendulum. When the length of the string was tested, the four averages of three periods showed a definitive increase as the string got longer, this is shown in Table 2. In Figure 2 the error bars are not shown to cross, and the error bars are so small that they are not seen in the figure. When the angle of release was tested, the four averages in Table 3 did not show an increase that was enough to discern a difference between the results. In Figure 3 the error bars intersected, further proving the point that the angle of release does not make a difference on the period of the pendulum.
The theoretical equation given in lab was $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ where T is the time of the period, pi is 3.14159, L is the length of the string, and g is the acceleration of gravity which equals 9.8 m/s2. This equation converted to be compared to the equation the group obtained in class is 2.007x5. The equation obtained in class from the results was $y=2.0991 x^{0.4125}$. So, the theoretical equation supports the equation we obtained because they are very similar. The graph is a power graph not a linear graph because the power graph had the best fit line and the R2 value was the closest on the power graph.
Possible random errors for this experiment are is  a slow or fast reaction time when using the stopwatch, the length of the string and the angle of release could be inconsistent, and the weights weren’t weighed before using them in the experiment, so the weights could each be off by a different amount. Possible systematic errors for this experiment are is  the range of uncertainty in the two different stopwatches that were used, and the weights may not have the actual mass that they are labeled with. We could reduce these errors by having more than one person take the time, have multiple people check the measurements before starting the experiment, and weigh the each of the weights before using them to find out how much they are off from their real number. 
One of the constraints for the experiment was when the angle was measured, it was only lined up by eyesight, so it has the possibility to be an inaccurate measurement. Another constraint in the experiment was there was only enough time to do so many trials, if more trials could have been performed then the results for the averages obtained would be more accurate than they currently are. One last constraint in the experiment was the string could only be so long because if the string was any longer it would touch the floor. If the string was longer, the function created by the group would be more accurate because multiple lengths extending beyond what is presented now would be available to analyze and add into the equation.