discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of this experiment was to determine whether or not the acceleration of the given system changes when the applied force (independent variable) changes. the experiment conducted on the date above with my group members allowed us to create a resulting mathematical model, which helped us address the research question. this experiment was conducted by first attaching the desired mass at the end of the string (the applied force on the cart is increased by increasing the hanging mass on the cart, and vice versa) and attaching the remaining bobbers to the cart (there were eight total bobbers, so eight trials were conducted). the cart was then placed on the track so that the front of the cart was aligned with the 600 mm mark. the datastudio program was started and then the air was turned on for the track to record the velocity versus time of the system when the cart was released. the slope of the velocity versus time graph was generated, which represents the acceleration of the cart. this value, as well as the standard deviation, was recorded for each trial. using these eight data points, an applied force vs. acceleration of cart graph was created (figure 1) and the line of best fit was determined. the equation for this line of best fit represented the mathematical model of the relationship between applied force and acceleration. this mathematical model was determined to be $a=4.8214 f + 0.002$ where a represents the acceleration of the system and f represents the applied force on the system. a positive linear relationship was found between the applied force on a system and the acceleration of the system, meaning that as the applied force on the cart increases (increased hanging mass), the acceleration of the cart increases as well. this mathematical model is accurate because the line of best fit through the data points showed an r2 value of 0.9965. additionally, the error bars on the graph (figure 1) are extremely small, indicating that there is little uncertainty with the collected data. therefore, our results supported our testable hypothesis and agreed with our initial prediction.

	after comparing my group’s results to the results of two other groups (see image 1 and image 2 below), it was apparent that we all concluded that the acceleration of the system is affected by the applied force due to the hanging mass. the results from the other two groups support my group’s results and occlusions.
each group had a similar linear model in which a positive linear relationship was shown between the applied mass on a system and the acceleration of the system (the linear models can be seen in image 1 and image 2 above). both groups also had the same independent, dependent, and controlled variables and had a similar experimental setup to my group. there are no notable or significant discrepancies between both groups’ data and claims and my group’s data and claims.

	the correct theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by a single force takes the form of $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$ (derived from newton’s second law). using this equation, we can predict the relationship between force and acceleration to be a direct positively linear relationship, which is portrayed by the significant positive slope of 4.8214 in the mathematical relationship provided by the experimental data. this slope is very close to 1 divided by the total mass (1/1.885 which is 5.3), indicating that the mathematical model is a good representative of the theoretical model. additionally, the best fit line in figure 1 fits the graphed data points extremely well.

the correct enhanced theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by more than one force takes the form of $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} -\frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$, where fext represents any external forces acting on the system, such as friction. however, friction is negligible in this system because an air track was used, so it makes sense that the y-intercept is 0.002, which is very close to 0.

if a non-massless string connects the hanging mass to the cart, the uniform acceleration of the cart will remain the same, as long as friction is negligible. this is because the lack of the string’s mass will not contribute to the applied force acting on the cart, meaning that the acceleration of the cart would not change. however, since in this experiment the string that was used was not massless, changing the string to a massless string would slightly decrease the acceleration of the cart because the applied force on the cart would be slightly smaller. in another scenario, if a heavy string connects the hanging mass to the cart, the acceleration would increase because the heavy mass of the string would contribute to the applied force acting on the cart, increasing it. as established earlier, a greater normal force acting on the cart will increase the acceleration of the cart.

random errors in this experiment include a slight amount of friction acting on the cart since the air track is not completely frictionless and air resistance pushing against the moving cart and hanging mass, potentially decreasing the acceleration of the cart. systematic errors include incorrect calibration of the computer system and incorrect calibration of the scale used to weigh out the materials we used in this lab. these errors would cause the mathematical model to differ from the theoretical model. random errors are difficult to eliminate but can be reduced by using the most frictionless air track as possible and starting the cart from a shorter distance away from the pully so that air resistance in negligible. proper calibration of all measurement instruments used in this experiment can help to reduce systematic errors.

constraints within this experiment included the lack of a completely frictionless experimental system. when comparing the experimental context to the theoretical model, the force of friction exerted by the air track, the force of friction exerted by the pulley, the force of friction exerted by the clamp that stations the pulley and the rotary motion detector, and the force of air resistance exerted on the hanging mass needs to be considered. even when using objects in the system that have little friction, friction still contributes to our mathematical model to a greater degree than the theoretical model, which has negligible friction. the presence of some friction impacts the theoretical model that my group determined to fit the relationship between applied force and acceleration. because friction would decrease the acceleration of the cart, the generalizability of our results would be limited because it would not fit a frictionless system setup as well.


