conclusion:



according to the data above, it clearly shows that there is a linear relationship between force and acceleration in the graph. as one increases the hanging mass (applied force) there is an increase in the amount of acceleration of the system. referring to the theoretical model $f=m a$ there is a variable for total mass of the system m in this model, force which includes the hanging mass multiplied by gravity and the acceleration of the system and gravity. when the equation is rearranged, it is $a=\frac{f}{m}$, as one increases the force applied, then mathematically the acceleration would increase. the resulting experimental model was $y=0.005 x-0.0563$. some other forces that could be present in this experimental model are is  friction and air resistance that could have been caused by a tilt in the belt to not have the highest amount of acceleration. the mass of the system shows up as the inverse of the slope value in the experimental model. this model addresses the research question, because this shows a linear graph in the figure above based on the data retrieved in this experiment of increasing acceleration. however, the string could potentially increase the acceleration because it is adding mass to the system. when one plugs in the applied force into this experimental model, then the value of acceleration is relatively close to the theoretical. 

the claim stated above is supported by two groups that have very similar results from the experiment. according to the data presented by physics phour the trends in the graph indicates that there is a linear relationship between force applied and acceleration. for the two women group, referring to their theoretical model $f= m a$ a claim was made that as one increases the applied force, then the acceleration increases as well. their experimental model was $y=0.0053 x-0.0443$. when one plugs in the applied force into the experimental model, the value of acceleration is very close to the theoretical value. 
