discussion and conclusion:

this lab was meant answer the question “what factors influence the period of a pendulum for small swings?” three factors were tested; the mass of the pendulum weight, the angle the pendulum was released from, and the length of the pendulum. in turn each of these three factors was tested as the independent variable while the other two were kept constant. the first two factors, mass and angle, both showed no effect on the period. data table 1 shows the results of the first trial. the mass was increased from 50 to 130 grams, but the period shows no trend of either increasing or decreasing. aside from a slight variance due to random error the trend of the graph is linear with a slope of zero. likewise, data table 2 shows that there is no significant change in the period as the angle is increased. neither of these graphs fit a trend line in the error bars for all the data point, so technically they don’t meet the equivalency criterion. however, these outlying data points are likely due to random error caused by inconsistent starting and stopping of the timer.

the third trial, shown in data table 3, showed a proportional increase in the period as the length was increased. this indicates that the only variable that influences the period is the length of the pendulum. the length experiment was repeated, this time using a photogate to reduce the amount of random error. the results of this trial are shown in data table 4. with increased accuracy for the measurements the relation between period and length appears exponential. using the best fit function in excel we found the r value to be 0.9990 and the equation for the line to be $y=0.2491 x^{0.4623}$. 

the main source of random error in our experiments came from inconsistent starting and stopping of the timer, this was reduced by using the photogate when making the mathematical model. a source of systematic error was that we measured the length of the pendulum as the distance to the top of the weight instead of to the center of gravity, this means that our equation will differ slightly from the actual equation. some constraints of this experiment are that it only tested small swings where the angle of release was less than 20 degrees, so the model we made may not accurately predict how pendulums swing at larger angles of release. also the experiment didn’t test the effect that the gravitational constant has of the pendulum, the mathematical model we constructed assumes it is constant so it would not be able to account for the change in the gravitational constant if the experiment were repeated in a different location.