discussion:

there are many sources of error for labs 1-3. the biggest source of error in lab 1 was the inaccuracy of self-timing with a stopwatch. this, due to the inaccuracy of human reaction time, was a random error that factored into the results of lab 1. this could be solved by using a photo-timer, which is more precise in its measuring of the period of a pendulum. this random error was solved in lab 3 by using a photogate, eliminating that random error. there is another random error that occurred in lab 1 from measuring the string using a measuring tape and a rough estimate. no measurement made of the string length was perfectly precise since our measuring tape had a funky end and we tended to round our lengths slightly. a systematic error that could have occurred in lab 1 is air resistance on the pendulum. this source of error could be eliminated by performing the experiment in a vacuum (although very difficult to carry out). 

as seen stated below the lab 3 graph, the mathematical model of a pendulum obtained in lab does not perfectly match the following theoretical mathematical model found online, $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ . even though 2π equals about 6.3 which is close to the 7.4015 number i got in my equation, the exponent on the l in the online equation is supposed to be .5 and i got an exponent of 2.2598.

when looking for which independent variable affected the period of a pendulum it is important to see which error bars overlap the least. the less the error bars overlap, the more likely it is that the period recorded for each measurement of the independent variable is actually different, meaning the independent variable did affect the period. the length vs. period graph from lab 1 had the least amount of overlap of the error bars out of all the tested independent variables. when length was further investigated in lab 3, a graph with error bars was made with that data as well (as seen above). the error bars on this graph are so small they cannot even be seen. 


after a closer and more precise look at how the length affects the period, as was done in lab 3, we can note that the error bars included on the graph are too small to see. this means that none of the data points have overlapping error bars. with this observation it can be concluded that the length of the string on a pendulum has a relationship with the period of the pendulum. the data above shows that as the length of the string increases, the time it takes for the pendulum to complete one period increases as well. this conclusion cannot be made for the mass or angle of release variables. neither of these independent variables showed enough of a relationship to the pendulum’s period to conclude that they affect the length of the period.