discussion and conclusion

	the pendulum experiment was testing if the length of the string, the mass of the pendulum, or the angle of release will affect the period of the pendulum. each separate experiment helped decide on what affected the pendulum by testing each variable in its own controlled environment. in figure 1, you can see that the angle does not affect the period of the pendulum. the error bars are evident, but they are wall within .9 seconds of each other which is not a big enough difference to truly affect the period. as well as in figure 2, the time versus mass graph, there is no relationship between the two. there is not a distinct pattern in the plot and error bars for the mass to impact the period of the period. then in figure 3.1, there is a direct relationship between the length of the pendulum in accordance with the period of the pendulum. the error bars are barely evident, and the graph shows a nonlinear relationship between the two. the theoretical mathematical model established from our data collected was . this was established after using a photo-gate to gather more accurate and precise data to better represent the actual equation. in figure 3.2, you can see the equation derived from the data. it relates to our data because of the smaller range of length we tested on the second time with the photo-gate giving the smaller exponent of the x-value. when making the trendline through the data, the curve that fit the best is . even though we tested the mass and angle too, the relationships were not apparent enough to factor into the trendline curves to create their own mathematical equations. both systematic and random errors were present in these experiments. systematic errors were the different stopwatches being used, reading the protractors when measuring the angles released, and reading the tape measure when measuring the length of the pendulum. the random errors in this lab were the reaction time of the timers before using the photo-gate to time the period, and the weight of the pendulum dragging down the string. to reduce these errors, we used a photo-gate to time the period, measured before and after attaching the pendulum to make sure the length was the same. another thing that could have been done was if there was a protractor attached to the pendulum for more accurate angle measurements.