conclusion:
Throughout our investigation we found that length impacts the period of a small pendulum swing.  Each one of our experiments helped us determine what impacts the period of a small pendulum swing. For our first experiment, we tested the three main factors that could impact the period; mass, length, and angle of release. If you look at Graph 1, you can see from the results that mass has no correlation with the period. The reason there is no correlation is because the graph shows no relationship. The plots are scattered about and, they increase and decrease with different variation. If you look at Graph 2, you can see that as the length increases so does the period. Therefore, we can claim that length impacts the period because there Is a direct relationship. When length goes up so does the period. Finally, in graph 3 we can see that angle has no relationship to period. The plots are all over the place again and show no correlation. From experiment 1, we learned that Length impacts the period. In experiment 2, we identified what could have cause some of our measurement errors. Whether it be timing, mis-measurement, calculation, or non-true values, a plethora of things could lead to deviation. Using constant angle, mass, and length (even though angle and mass have no effect), we took 9 trial times in, Table 4, to calculate our standard deviation for time measurements. This gave us the values we needed to include error bars on our graphs. This could explain the variation in some of our values. Humans are not perfect at timing things and this proved that. Finally, in experiment 3 we used a photogate to ensure that Length and Period do correlate. Our results in Graph 4 shows a machine’s values for measuring the period and it lines up with what we saw in Graph 2 where we measured the period ourselves. The results in this experiment finalized our thoughts from experiment 1.		

In Experiment 3, we looked at the theoretical mathematical model which is  $T=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$          . This calculates what the period of a pendulum should be theoretically. Our Experimental Mathematical Model was $T=0.2018 l^{0.498}$ for this experiment. We used a length of 0.5 meters and the theoretical time for our pendulum was 1.419 seconds. Our actual value using our experimental model was 1.418 which is only .001 seconds off. This validated our values because the photogate had an error scale of .001 seconds meaning that we had almost perfect results. Our power curve fit lines up with our data extremely well. Graph 4 shows our curve fit, data values, and mathematical model. The theoretical model also does not include the angle of release and mass on the end of the string. Therefore, they do not affect the period. The model validates our previously claims from experiment 1. 			
Errors are present in most experiments. Some of the errors that were in ours are timing of the period, round off calculations, communication between the release and start of stopwatch, non-exact lengths of string, stopwatch errors, warping of the measuring tape, and more. We tried to reduce these as much as possible by taking means. For example, in Table 4 we had 3 people using a stopwatch to measure the length of a period. 3 of us measured and then we took the average of all three. This way one person could not mess up the time values. We also did multiple trials for each measurement in the other experiments. Like in graph 1, we took multiple measurements for each data plot to make sure that we weren’t getting outlier values. 
During this Experiment, we learned what impacted the period of a pendulum. We had a few constraints though, one of those being time. With only 2 hours a week to do each experiment we didn’t have enough time to take more data and see what happens to a pendulum over different lengths. Another constraint was lack of precise measuring equipment. Our measuring tapes were not state of the art and only had a small degree of accuracy, possibly affecting our results. These are just a few constraints that might limit the generalizability of our experiment. What we did learn in this experiment is that Length impacts the period of a pendulum. 
