discussion

     the question being investigated in this lab is “how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes?” the question is answered by conducting experiment, which by changing the mass of bobs hanging at the end of the cart.

     based on the data collected form table 1 and graph of the data in figure 1, we saw the acceleration is increasing as the mass of bobs hanging at the end of the cart increase and appears to be in liner correlation. the error bar overlaps each other as well. the mathematical model should follow the equation $y=a x+b$ , and the equation of the theoretical linear line should be $y= 5.1 x + \frac{f_k}{0.18911}$. our equation of the line is $y= 5.1181 x - 0.0092$. after the mathematical model being checked by ta and obtained the acceleration of the cart (0.527m/s^2) from the ta we obtained that in order for the cart to reach acceleration of 0.527m/s^2, we need to hanged bobs that weight 0.0165kg.

     the difference of our mathematical model between two other groups we chosen to compare with can be attribute to systematic and random error. the random error in the experiments were the cart did not from the same length, or starting the measuring system too late. the systematic error include cart measuring system was faulty, or the air pump did not provide enough air flow for the track. by doing multiple trials of the experiments and make sure releasing the cart from the same distance can help eliminating errors as much as possible.

     the experiments was to determine how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes? after collecting and graphing all the data from each variables and trials that were being tested, we came to a conclusion that the acceleration of the bobs’ cart will increase as the mass of bobs hanging at the end of the cart increase, which exactly the same as our prediction. the conclusion was drawn after comparing all the tables and graph from above. in comparison of the equation of line we calculate based on the datas with the theoretical equation of the line, it was close and the differences can be attributed to systematic error and random errors. also, there should be friction and air resistance present in the experimental context, which they would causing acceleration to decrease. the mass of the system shows up in the control variable (the mass of the system is kept constant after all).