discussion and conclusions:
the purpose of this lab was to determine how the acceleration of a system changes in response to a change in applied forces. this experiment tested newtons second law which states that the acceleration of an object is dependent upon both the net force acting upon the object and the mass of the object. the experiment conducted addresses the research question by changing the force applied on a metal cart and measuring the acceleration via a photogate and the datastudio software. our data showed that the acceleration of the system increased with an increase in the force applied (figure 5). the findings from other groups in our class supported our results. groups 3, 5 and 6 showed that with an increase in force there was an increase in acceleration. their results further show that newtons second law was applicable in this situation. any discrepancies between the data from different groups could be due to using different air tracks; however, the pattern remained consistent between groups. our experimental and theoretical models ended up being very similar. the theoretical equation was $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$ and the experimental mathematical model was $a=c1 w+c2$. experimentally, our results were not completely linear due to errors in our experiment. some of these errors are due to other forces being present in the experiment. the air track was assumed to be frictionless; however, we did not confirm this to be the case. gravity was also present during the experiment, as there was no way to eliminate it. tension from the string was also present. the errors due to these forces show up as the 0.0931 in our equation $y=0.005 x+0.0931$. the mass of the system showed up as the 0.005 in the experimental equation. the standard deviation of the bobbers shown on figure 4 was 0.33 and was calculated by using the standard deviation tool on excel. the standard deviation of the acceleration was 0.01 and was given to us to use by our ta in response to our data. the string, even without bobbers, affected the acceleration of the cart because it still added mass. a heavy string connected to the cart would increase the acceleration because it would increase the force on the cart. we reduced this error by accounting for the weight of the string in all of our measurements. there were multiple random and systematic errors present in the experiment, although they were reduced as much as possible. a systematic error present was that the scale was not zeroed out before measuring the masses of the bobbers, cart, and string. since this error occurred during all of the measurements, it was not expected to affect the results of the experiment. in the future, the scale should be zeroed to minimize this error. another systematic error present was that the air track was not leveled before the start of the experiment. this altered the acceleration by potentially adding a slope to a presumably flat track. if this experiment were repeated, the air track would need to be leveled before the experiment began. a random error present in this experiment is that the acceleration was measured by highlighting a line on the graph shown on datastudio and finding the slope. this caused a potential error because the line may not have been perfectly aligned with the line from the graph, changing the slope. in the future this should be watched closely to ensure that the slope is properly obtained or another software system should be used to measure the slope. this experiment had constraints in that it only measured the acceleration in a low friction air track. it would be interesting to see what results we would obtain in a surface with heavy friction. it was also constrained in the mass of the bobbers. we were only given eight bobbers so we still do not know how the experiment would react with a higher mass. 

