discussion and conclusion

	the research question being investigated in this lab is how the independent variable of force applied to system affects the dependent variable of the acceleration of the system.
we determined that the force applied to the system does influence the acceleration of the system. table 2 shows that the acceleration of the system increased each time the force on the system increased. supporting the data of table 2, figure 1 shows a strong, positive, and linear relationship between the force applied to the system and the acceleration of the system, with a high r2 value of 0.9947. in figure 1, neither horizontal nor vertical error bars are not visible. this is because the error bars are very small compared to the difference in the data points. error bars represent the uncertainty of acceleration, which is the standard deviation of the slope of the best-fit line from the velocity-time graph obtained from datastudio. also, the mathematical model we calculated from the experiment, which is $a=4.3095 f + 0.0555$ demonstrates a linear relationship between the force applied to the system and the acceleration of the system. thus, the force applied to the system does influence the acceleration of the system. therefore, we accept our hypothesis that the force applied to the system does influence the acceleration of the system. 

as shown in figure 2, group 77.5 found a strong, positive, and linear relationship between the force applied to the system and the acceleration of the system, with a high r2 value of 0.9992. also, the mathematical model group 77.5 calculated from their experiment, which is $a=0.00042 f - 0.0221$ demonstrates a linear relationship between the force applied to the system and the acceleration of the system. thus, the findings of group 77.5 support our claim that the applied force on the system affects the acceleration of the system.
as shown in figure 3, team squirt found a strong, positive, and linear relationship between the force applied to the system and the acceleration of the system, with a moderately high r2 value of 0.7829. also, the mathematical model team squirt calculated from their experiment, which is $a=4.346 f - 0.1698$ demonstrates a linear relationship between the force applied to the system and the acceleration of the system. thus, the findings of team squirt support our claim that the applied force on the system affects the acceleration of the system.
our experimental relationship between acceleration of system and applied force of system is                                      $a=4.3095 f + 0.0555$. this experimental relationship makes sense because the theoretical model is linear such that $a =\frac{f_{hanging}+f_{unknown}}{m_{sys}}$. forces such as friction of air track, tension of string, air resistance against the cart, air resistance against the hanging weight, and mass of the string could have had a summed effect and thus could have caused a slight variation of the experimental model from the theoretical model. these forces show up in the experimental model as the y-intercept of 0.0555, which is (forces unknown) / (mass system). ideally, if these forces were not present, the y-intercept would have been zero. the mass of the system shows up in the experimental model as the slope of 4.3095, which is (1/mass system). it also shows up as the y-intercept of 0.0555, which is (forces unknown) / (mass system). if the string had a conceivable mass, then the acceleration would increase as the sled moved along the track because more mass would be pulling the cart downward as string moved downward.

a random error that we experienced is that the rotary motion sensor was fluky. it would sometimes measure the motion of the cart and sometimes it wouldn’t. this was all random. because the rotary motion sensor randomly did not work, it caused the last decimal point to be inaccurate. a systematic error that occurred was that some of the airholes on the air track were partially covered, which could have led to an increased amount of friction on the track. this would have resulted in lower acceleration values than what would have normally been measured. to prevent this error from occurring, we could check each hole on the air track to make sure that they are fully uncovered before running any trials. finally, another source of systematic error that occurred was that the air track was angled down. because of this error, the acceleration of the cart would differ by a consistent amount for each trial. this is due to the fact that the acceleration of the cart would be negatively affected by the incline of the track. to rectify this error, a leveling could be used to make sure that the track is straight and not angled.

there were some constraints in this experiment that may limit the generalizability of the results. the first constraint that limited the generalizability of the results was the friction that came from the covered air holes on the air track. our experimental model won’t work for other experiments with a different friction working against the sled on a different surface. to correct this situation, the air track must be made frictionless by uncovering all the air holes. this will lead to an accurate model where only the applied force is changing the acceleration of the sled. another constraint that limited the generalizability of our results was the use of the rotary motion sensor (rms). our motion sensor randomly malfunctioned many times throughout the experiment, causing some acceleration values to be inaccurate in the last digit. this led us to obtain data that was inaccurate, leading to an inaccurate experimental model for the relationship between acceleration of a system and force applied to a system. to fix this, better tech than the rms would have to be used so that data could be obtained without failures.