discussion and conclusion:

the main goal for this experiment was to determine which variables directly correlated with the amount of time it took a weighted pendulum to complete one rotation. we conducted three different experiments, in each, changing one variable to test its effects on the dependent variable (the time it took to complete one interval). 

first variable we tested was the mass of the pendulum (figure 1). we varied the weight of the pendulum from 50 grams to 250 grams. we added weights stacks to the pendulum to increase weight and kept a constant string length at .25 m and the starting position at 20 degrees. we completed 3-time trials for each weight and obtained the averages. after graphing the data from this experiment, we can conclude that the independent variable has no correlation with the dependent variable. since we can draw through almost every data point with a straight horizontal line, the error bars overlap leaving us with the conclusion that there is no evident correlation. this conclusion means that the weight has little to no effect on the time it takes the pendulum to complete one interval. 

we may have encountered random error when we assumed that the weight of the pendulum was exactly 50 grams (weight was indicated on the pendulum base). assuming the pendulum was originally 50 grams, we added weighted stacks to it to increase the weight for each trial. we did in fact weight one of the weighted stacks before adding it to the pendulum but did not repeat for each weight. this could have also caused a random error in our data.

the margin of error for the scale we used was unknown, which caused a systematic error in our data.
next variable we tested was the length of the string (figure 2). we predicted that by increasing the length of the string that the pendulum rotates on, we could increase the time the pendulum took to complete one rotation. we used a ruler to measure the string to each length, and swung the pendulum from the same starting height of 20 degrees, at the same weight (50 g). 
the string was a little difficult to keep in place during measurement, this could have result in a random error
we used two separate measuring devices for this measurement, which could have led to a systematic error in our data.
after conducting three-time trials with each length, we can to conclusion that the length of the string does in fact correlate to the amount of the time it takes the pendulum to complete one rotation. by increasing length, we successfully increased the amount of took in seconds. to improve precision and accuracy of our data collection, we retested this hypothesis (figure 3) using a photogate to lessen systematic errors and the remeasured each length with both rulers. this resulted in a smaller standard deviation value, indicating an increase in accuracy. our precision improved with a decrease in our error of measurement of string length.

	the third variable we tested was the angle of the starting position. in conducting this experiment, we used a protractor to measure the starting position and allowed the same student to release the pendulum each time. in each of the other experiments we started the pendulum with a 20-degree angle. we tested the pendulums time at 20 degrees, 30 degrees, 40 degrees and 60 degrees. after data collection, we noticed there was no correlation between the length of the string and the time it took the pendulum to complete one rotation. 

the random errors played a huge role in this experiment. because its hard to hold the pendulum at each height exactly, this could have resulted in misleading data. to increase precision, one must have a holder for the pendulum that could extend it to the exact height and release. 

in conclusion, we determined that the only variable that has any effect on the time it takes the pendulum to swing is the length of the string. weight of the pendulum does not matter when it comes to the time it takes to swing and neither does the angle that you start to swing the pendulum from. i believe that the angle could have influenced the dependent variable if we reduced the amount of random error in the experiment. we also determined that the precision and accuracy of the experiment (with correlation) could be improved by decreasing the amount of random error and systematic error in the data set.