discussion/ conclusion



what impacts the swing of a pendulum? the independent variables that were being measured in this experiment were the mass, the angle and the length of string against the time that it takes a pendulum to swing. each independent variable was measured separately, and the other two independent variables were controlled at the time the one was being tested.  the theoretical math model was $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. our model was $y=0.2309x^{0.4728}$ for the measurement of the length of the string. this was very similar to the theoretical model indicating that the differences were mostly due to error in measurements. based on the data that was collected it was determined that the length of the string is the only variable out of the mass, the string length and the angle of the pendulum that effects the period of the pendulum. such as, in both figure 1 and figure 2 the data for the string length seems to be graphed in a linear pattern the  value in figure 1 is 0.7445 and the   value for figure 2 is 0.964. the   value on these graphs was a lot larger than the value on the other graphs for mass and angle. the  values for figures 3,4 5 and 6 had a small  value which indicated that the data indicating that the relationship between the independent and dependent variables doesn’t have a correlation. since these graphs didn’t seem to have a correlation it showed that the variables for mass and angle didn’t affect the period of the pendulum. as shown in figure 8, the mass will not affect the period of the pendulum. the ranges of uncertainty were measured using excel to find the standard deviation. the standard deviation indicates the amount of error that has occurred because it shows how spread the data is from the actual mean. the error bars determine if the data is significant because if there is some overlap between the error bars then the two values that are being measured are equivalent. as shown, by the figure 3 and 4, there was some overlap with the error bars indicating that the angle doesn’t affect the time period of the pendulum. also, in figure 5 and 6 the error bars overlap indicating that the mass doesn’t affect the time of the pendulum. however, in figures 1 and 2 the errors bars don’t overlap indicating that the data is significant meaning that the length of the string effects the time period of the pendulum. some random errors that may have occurred is the person that is using the timer starting it too fast. another random error is if the length of the string wasn’t measured right. also, if someone rounded to the wrong decimal place. one of the systematic errors that could have occurred is if the buttons on the timer were delayed and if the labels on the weights are labeled wrong. some constraints that could have affected the measurements were there was only one type of string. if the string was old and stretched out, then the length measurements might not be as accurate. another constraint was there wasn’t anything to hold the string until release instead of having one of the group members do it. this could affect how accurate the angle measurements were. 



