discussion and conclusion 

our lab group answered the question of whether or not changing certain factors influence the period of a pendulum (specifically angle of release, length of string, and weight). testing these three factors each have potential to sufficiently impact the period of a pendulum. these three variables enabled us to conclude that only the length of string changes the period of a pendulum for small swings. this conclusion is validated when observing the graphs of our data. only the length of string vs. period of pendulum graph shows a linear relationship with error balls too small to see. the angle of release vs. period of pendulum graph displays no obvious relationship between angle of release and period of a pendulum shown was .03 second length error bars. this same result goes for mass of weight vs. period of a pendulum (showing no correlation between weight and period of a pendulum and containing the same length error bars). this means the angle of release and mass of weight used do not change the period of a pendulum, only the length of string does. the measurement uncertainties differ by experiment. the uncertainty of the length of the string vs. period of pendulum was ± .001 and this was given to us. the angle of release vs. period of pendulum uncertainty was 1.12 ± .053852. the mass of weight vs. period of pendulum uncertainty was 1.434 ± 0.02881. these were found by taking the average of the results and adding or subtracting the deviation. the deviation can be calculated using excel or taking the square root of the variance of the data.



none of our data graphs match the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum ($t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$). for our length of string vs. period of pendulum data with almost 0 error, the theoretical model period of the pendulum for 50 cm would be 1.4192 seconds. using our equation from our data the theoretical period of pendulum would be 1.5634 seconds. this means our data has some sort of systematic error because our period is larger. this was expected because with our model, there is no way to know the actual value of gravity. the systematic error of human inaccuracy to stop and start the stopwatches was eliminated by using a laser system connected to our computer to display data. other sources of systematic error could’ve resulted from using a weight that did not actually weigh the claimed value. this could be avoided by using a scale to verify the weight. a wobbly stand could also be a systematic error, avoided by securing the stand tightly. any sources of random error (such as an earthquake) could not be avoided. if there was any suspicion of random error, repeating the experiment with more trials would’ve minimized this error.  a constraint of the experiment arises with having a limited amount of time to conduct experiments. this is because it limits the amount of trials we can conduct, making our data less accurate and less thorough.