discussion 

the purpose of this experiment was to determine what factors affected the period of the swing of a pendulum. the three factors we tested were is  the length of the string, the mass of the bob, and the angle of release. based on the data we collected when testing, we can see that the error bars do not overlap and that the length of the string does affect the period of the pendulum. therefore, the prediction was correct, and an increase in string length did increase the period of the pendulum. the data collected when testing how the mass of the bob affects the period of the pendulum shows no correlation. the error bars did have overlap, which means there was no statistical difference in the data points. therefore, the prediction was incorrect, and the mass of the bob does not change the period of the swing. the data collected when testing how the angle of release affects the period of the pendulum shows no correlation. the error bars did have overlap, which means there was no statistical difference in the data points. therefore, the prediction was incorrect, and the angle of release does not change the period of the swing.

the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum [$t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{x}}}$], where x is the length of the string. our calculated model, as seen in fig. 1, was $y =0.2491 x^{0.4623}$. this is close to the theoretical model and can be shown by plugging in a specific length into each equation and seeing how similar the answers are. using 250 cm, we find that the theoretical model calculates the period to be 3.17s. when plugging in 250 cm to the calculated model, we get 3.19s. these values are very close, meaning that our calculated equation is similar to the mathematical model. however, they are not exactly the same, which suggests some error was involved in collecting the data. sources of error include human error in measuring the length of the string, error in finding the exact point the pendulum reaches its peak, and error in stopping the timer at the exact point the pendulum reaches its peak.

one constraint of this experiment was the use of a tape measure to measure the length of the string. this is a constraint because the human eye is not completely perfect, and it is possible to be off by a millimeter or two when measuring the length. another constraint is the minimal air resistance. while the bob is small and the impact of air resistance is negligible, it is still there nonetheless, and a perfect experiment would be performed in a vacuum where air resistance does not exist.