conclusion:
The research question that drove this experiment was What impacts the period of a pendulum resulting in a smaller swing? The first experiment, mass vs. period, did not show correlating results. If you look at the first graph it is an uneven horizontal line. There was no specific pattern represented by this horizontal line and the unsteadiness could be a result of random error. The data is also within 1.40 seconds to 1.47 seconds so if there were to be a pattern it would have shown somehow in the data. The second experiment was length Vs. period and a pattern was discovered between the period and length of the string. If you look at graph two you will see the graph steadily increase as the length of the string does. Technically speaking it should have been a linear fit but due to the limited amount of data it ended up being a power fit with the power being less than two (showing how close it is to one/linear fit). Lastly, period vs. angle did have a relationship however it had a range. If the angel was lower than fifteen degrees there was no actual change, however after fifteen degrees you notice it is roughly linear and the length of the period increases as the angle does.  
	The theoretical model is an equation that uses length and mass to calculate the time it should take a pendulum to swing one period. That is the equation below. My length vs. period graph does somewhat match this model, it is off about two seconds though which can be due to random error in my process. The equation for my length vs. period came out to be (0.1775X^ (0.524)) which fit our data almost perfectly. Mass vs. period does not fit in with this obviously because it is a horizontal line and the angle vs. period has a range so a line fit did not work on this specific graph. 


	This experiment consisted of a lot of random errors just because reaction times are hard to control when we were doing it by hand. To fix this we ended up using a photogate which had a certain of 0.001 which was much better than what we could have done by hand. This fixed the random error but there’s also a systematic error when it comes to timing anything in general just because there will always be a slight error. Another random error was measuring the length of the string and angel just because we had one ruler and one protractor so there was room for human mistake in measuring every time. We did try to be as accurate as possible but there is always a chance of error. 
	
