conclusion:



this experiment’s purpose was to investigate the question of if applied force had an affect on an object’s acceleration. by using the cart, bobbers, and air track, a system was able to be replicated where all factors, including mass, would be kept constant, except for the applied force (represented by the hanging bobbers) and the resulting acceleration. with these being the only changing variables, graph 1 was able to be produced to display the relationship between these two variables. due to the nearly perfect linear line with a near-constant slope, it is suffice to say that our data does in fact correlate with our prediction and proves our hypothesis to be correct, as the acceleration does indeed increase with the increasing applied force. the data from the other groups, shown in pictures 1-3, also show this relationship and thus further affirm our data.

the theoretical equation for this relationship would be $f=ma$ where the applied force is equal to a constant ‘m’ multiplied by an acceleration ‘a’. this does in a way resemble our own mathematical model, except for the constant ‘c’ (which for our group was 0.0087) which accounted for any possible errors.

a possible constraint for this experiment was the assumption made that forces such as friction and air resistance were negligible. however, as seen in the mathematical models in pictures 1-3, those forces likely did hold an influence on the results; which, using picture 3 as an example, is able to be seen by the constant -0.0112 in the mathematical models.

based off of the trials from table 1, the first trial resulted in 0.031 m/s^2 value for acceleration, which is a 26% difference from the 0.042 m/s^2 acceleration which was used. the second trial, where acceleration was equivalent to 0.402 m/s^2, led to the value of 0.372 m/s^2, which is a 7.5% differences. these differences can be due to the increased mass of the larger cart. the larger difference, however, is due to a random human error where a much smaller acceleration was targeted on accident. another source of random error was the assumption that each bobber had the same mass. however if some weighed more or less than others, these differences may have cancelled out. it would also be best to point out that there were initially errors with the sensor, and it may have been miscalibrated slightly, which would cause a systematic error.
