discussion

the research question for this experiment was, what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? the experiment with mass as the independent variable addressed the research question and the claim that can be made is mass doesn’t affect period. that claim can be made is by looking at the graph and how the point all fall along one horizontal line and same goes with the error bars. it can also be seen in the table through the average period all being around the 1.5 second mark, which shows that a singular horizontal line can be drawn and hit every single point through the graph. the experiment with the length of string as the independent variable addressed the research question and the claim that can be made is that length of the string does affect the period of the pendulum. this can be shown in the graph as it has a linear relationship between length and period. the error bars also show the same relationship as it can also be seen in the graph and table using the photogate system. as length increases, so does the period of the pendulum. there is no point on the graph where one singular horizontal line can be drawn, which hits every point. if one horizontal line is drawn, there are four other points on the graph which are either above it or below it. the experiment with the angle of release as the independent variable addressed the research question and the claim that can be made is that the angle of release does not affect the period of the pendulum. like the mass, all the average period value falls along the 1.2 s mark, and the point is furthered through the vertical error bars having the same horizontal line run through every single error bar. the theoretical equation for the length variable is $y=0.2037 x^{0.4968}$ the mathematical model produced from the lab supports the data because the exponent is supposed to be as close to .5 as it can be and since the exponent in my theoretical equation is .4968 and it can’t be any closer to that as it can be. even the .2037 that is the leading coefficient in my theoretical equation is supposed to be close to 0 which mine already is. the only way that my theoretical equation couldn’t support the data is that y would have to equal 1 single number, which would then present a horizontal line thus proving that the theoretical equation doesn’t support the data produced from the lab. the major constraint in this experiment was the only restriction given to us, which is the small swing angle because the small swing angle must be less than 30 degrees, which means that the results are only valid for pendulums for small swings and can’t be generalized to systems with arbitrary release angles. potential systematic error was the length changes as the center of mass was changing. a way to reduce the systematic error could be to use a more precise ruler or the systematic error should just be avoided. and one potential random error was the pressing of the stopwatch varies from person to person due to human reaction speed. the random error could be reduced by having more people record times and averaging that out to get one fixed time which could help decrease uncertainty and increase accuracy.