discussion and conclusion

	in this lab, the relationship between mass, string length, and angle of a pendulum was 

	being tested if it affected the period time. in the first experiment, each independent variable was tested individually which the others becoming a control variable. this allowed us to see which variable itself had a direct correlation with affect the time of the period. based off of table 4 and figure 1, we can see that when the length of the string was increased, the time of the period also increased. from the information we had received from this graph, we were able to conclude that the length of a string has a direct, linear relationship with time. the second trial in the first experiment tested to see if mass had an impact on the time of a period. from table 5 and figure 2, it shows a negative relationship between mass and time. therefore, we were able to conclude that mass did have a relationship with the period time; however, it was an indirect correlation. lastly from the first experiment, we had test whether the angle of the period had an effect on the time of a period. based off the results from table 6 and figure 3, there was very minimal correlation between the angle and the time of the period. when the angle was increased, the time of the period still stayed relatively the same. therefore, we were not able to draw a relationship between the two variables. 

	in the second experiment, we began to test to determine the uncertainty in our experiments. in the beginning, it was discussed what sort of random errors were present in our experiment 1 trials. those errors consisted of problems with starting and stopping the timer at the right time, miscounting the periods, and not keeping the correct angle of release. it was determined that these errors could be corrected by only allowing one person to be in charge of timing the period so there’d be no differences in time, clarifying what the group would like to count as a period, so everyone does the math the same, and double checking the angle before releasing the pendulum. as for systematic errors, we had classified some as the string slipping from its hold in the apparatus, slight variations in the weights, and small uncertainty in the measuring tape. it was determined that these errors could be fixed by measuring the length of the string by two different measuring tapes, retightening the string after each trial, and measuring the weights before counting on the written grams.  included in the second experiment, we had done another trial to determine the standard deviation and had done so using a mass of 70 g, a string length of 40 cm, and an angle of 45. after doing so, we had received a standard deviation of 0.007888. 

the third experiment consisted of fully concluding which variables affect the time of a period and creating a mathematical model for the pendulum. although of first experiment showed that mass does have a relationship with the period time, it was later proved wrong and our results were wrong because of our random errors. other than our mistakes on the mass versus time trial and graph, our other two graphs concluded that our results were correct due to the error bars placed on top. therefore, it was finalized that the only variable that effect the period is the length of the string. when looking at our graph from the third experiment, table 7 and figure 4, is was found that the equation of the line was $y=0.0105 x+0.785$; however, the curve that best fits the data is the power law, $y=0.3105 x^{0.4166}$ . even though the results from this experiment fit much better than the previous ones, they are not exact according the full theoretical mathematical model, $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. our results are not completely correct because we did not test for acceleration, as the full model calls for it. so, from our data the period of a pendulum was 1.59 s at a length of 0.5 m, while the true model would show that the time should be 1.42 s at a length of 0.5 m.