discussion:

	the purpose of the experiment was to investigate how the applied force, due to the hanging mass of bobbers, affected the acceleration of the cart in order to investigate newton’s second law of force equals mass times acceleration. the data collected from the experiment in table 1 shows that as the mass the hanging force increases due to increasing the amount of hanging bobbers, the acceleration also increases. the data was then graphed, as seen in figure 1, showing a linear trend line. this supports our hypothesis that the greater the applied force due to the hanging mass on the system the greater the acceleration of the cart. the resulting mathematical model was $a=-0.0832 + \frac{x}{m}$ with 1/m being 4.7102, which shows the positive, linear correlation of the system. the total mass of the system remained the same, the bobbers were simply moved from the hanging mass to the body of the cart. 

after completing the experiment our data was compared to the data of two other groups, pathos and sato. the data of group pathos was synonymous with our data as seen in figure 2, which further supports our own claim. their mathematical model was $y=5.0147 x - 0.0318$ similar to our model of $y=4.7102 x - 0.0832$. both models show a linear trend line with similar data points and standard deviations. while group sato also presents a linear trend, their data does not concur with ours. both their hanging masses and accelerations were much larger than ours, and their masses did not increase linearly. their mathematical model given was $y=0.529 x - 0.051$ which refutes our model, as the 1/m value is significantly smaller than both ours and group pathos’.  

the theoretical model of the system is  $f=m a$. the actual mathematical model from the experiment was $a = \frac{x}{m} – 0.0832$ with 1/m being 4.7102. both models show that as the applied force due to mass is increased so is the acceleration. other than the hanging weight, the force of friction may be present in the experimental context. friction is accounted for in the y - access force. the force of friction is represented as the y- intercept in the mathematical model, because the force of friction is going in the opposite direction of the acceleration. 

the force of the hanging mass is x. the mass of the system shows up in the experimental model of $y = 4.7102 x – 0.0832$ as 4.7102. this number represents 1 over the mass of the system. adding a non-massless string connecting the hanging mass to the cart may affect the acceleration but there would still be a uniform acceleration because it would only add to the overall mass of the system. 

systematic errors that could’ve been present in the experiment were the accuracy of the measuring system. in order to reduce the error due to inaccuracy of the system you would need to obtain a more accurate measuring system. another systematic error that could’ve been present was friction on the precision air track, reducing acceleration in every trial. to reduce this error, you would need to make sure there was no resistance in any trial which could be done by making sure no air flow was obstructed. random error could be present from mis-measuring either or both the bobbers or the cart and from unevenly or randomly distributing the bobbers when placing them on the cart. in order to reduce these errors more precise measurements would need to be taken by measuring each bobber and the cart several times and the bobbers would need to be strategically placed on the cart each time. constraints of the experiment are the random measuring errors and systematic errors from the devices used such as friction on the track as stated above. all errors would make it difficult to generalize the results.