discussion and conclusion



the purpose of this lab was to determine if mass affected the period of a pendulum. after testing three different masses, i conclude that the period of the pendulum did not change with the varied mass. this makes sense because the pendulum moved faster when the mass was lower and showed proportional results when the mass was changed. a possible systematic error in this experiment was not correctly zeroing the scale prior to using the scale. this could alter the mass used in the calculations.


research question is  which variables impact the period of a pendulum?


the purpose of this experiment was to determine if the length of string affected the period of a pendulum. after testing three different lengths, it was determined that the period of the pendulum was affected when the length of the string was altered. this makes sense because the pendulum moved faster when the length of the string was 33 cm versus when the string was 57.5 cm. a possible random error in this lab was the accuracy of the length of the string that was measured. this can be corrected if you take the measurement to the tenth decimal place to improve accuracy. another possible random error was how tightly the string was pulled. this would affect the number recorded obtained when measuring the length. 


	research question is  which variables impact the period of a pendulum?
the objective of this experiment was to determine if the angle of release affected the period of a pendulum. after testing four different angle measurements, the average time was taken and it can be concluded that the period of the pendulum did not change when the angle of release was changed. there was a lack of correlation because the trend line is a constant horizontal line. when testing the different masses, there was a lack of correlation because the trend line is a constant horizontal. the different lengths of string were observed and there was a positive linear relationship which indicates that there was an increase in period average being affected when the length of string is bigger in size. this makes sense because the pendulum stayed within the same time when the different angle degrees was being test. the uncertainty was 0.1 seconds which was determined using the standard deviation which supports the data presented in the table and graph. a possible random error in this lab was the precision of the angle that it was released. one way to avoid this is to have the same person observe the angle so the perception remains consistent. another possible error was the reaction time of the person timing. this can be regulated better if the timer starts and then you allow for 5-10 periods before hitting stop. this would allow you to obtain better results without constantly restarting the time. 

	the uncertainty measurements in the data above was calculate using an uncertainty of one half of the smallest division of the measuring instrument used.
	after measuring the different lengths of string, a line of best fit was made to ensure the data was as close to the theoretical value that should have been obtained. a power rule equation as created is  $y=0.199 x^{0.5022}$. after using the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum (2π√l/g), the theoretical value closely matched our power graph created. the exponential value calculated was .5 which was extremely close to our value of .5022. this supports our data collected. random errors can be reduced by conducting multiple trials to ensure the data collected is represented by numerous trials. improving the accuracy of measurements being taken can also reduce random errors. one possible way to reduce random error is to utilize a motion based timer to obtain more accurate measurements. systematic errors can be reduced by finding the source of error (an example in this lab would be improper balancing of the scale prior to weighing) and then fixing this error by balancing the scale properly.