discussion and conclusion 

	a.  the research question that was being asked was; what factors (string length, mass of bob, angle of string) impact the period of a pendulum swing.

	b.  the three experiments that were performed helped to narrow down which factors impacted the swing of the pendulum. after completing each experiment, it became evident that the length of the string was the only factor that had an impact on the swing of the pendulum. the graph representing the length of the string compared to the time, is the only graph that has a positive increase in the slope of the line.  looking at the data table, as the length of the string decreases in size, the time decreases as well, making the correlation positive and in a linear fashion. the trend of both the angle and the mass both have downward/negative sloping lines. the graphical relationship between the angle and the time oppose each other. as the angle becomes larger, the time it takes to complete one swing decreases. this makes the graph have a downward slope. the same it true for the relationship between mass and time. as you can see in the graph and the data table, as the mass of the bob increases, the time it takes to complete one swing decreases. 

	c. the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is $t =2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ . the data that was collected fits this model for several reasons. the theoretical model was able to be fully found after plugging in the graphical information. the graphical relationship is      $y=x^{2}$             . with this, the power of x was very close to its true value, 0.5. the numerical value of the power that was found was 0.5133. the slope that was calculated was also very close to the true value of 2.007. the slope that was calculated came out to be 2.0465. both of these values were very close to the true values that should have been obtained through collecting data. this means that the data that was collected for the length of the string compared to the time, fits the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum. the two other factors of mass and angle did not have any impact on the swing of the pendulum, so therefore they did not fit the theoretical mathematical model.

	d. random errors that were present may have included; not correctly timing the swing of the pendulum and having variations in controlled variables when they should be kept constant. possible systemic errors that may have occurred would include; the table not being level or the supporting pole in the pendulum apparatus not being sturdy. to minimize random error, we performed the experiment using the photogate, to ensure that the timing of the pendulum swing was accurate. all of the controlled variables were kept constant throughout to minimize random error as well. to reduce systemic error, after each trial, the rod on the apparatus was inspected to make sure it was fastened tightly.

	e. possible constraints would include a pendulum swing that could not exceed a swinging length of more than 18 inches. 18 inches was the longest length that was recorded in the data tables. the mathematical model is only generalizable to a pendulum with a string length of 18 inches or less. another constraint could be that the heaviest mass that was recorded was 150 g. the mathematical model is only generalizable to a pendulum that swings with a mass of 150 g or less.