discussion and conclusion

	the objective of labs 01-03 was to determine what factors affect the period of a pendulum.  there were 3 independent variables that were originally investigated; the mass of the bob, the length of the string and the angle of the initial drop. after our experiment was ran, two were determined to not influence the period of a pendulum (mass of bob, and angle of initial drop).  

our experiment first examined if angle of initial drop influenced period proved to us that there was in fact no correlation between the angle of release and the period of the pendulum. this was determined because once trials were running, and graphed (table 4 and figure 1), we in fact saw no correlation. using our error bars, we did see overlap of the standard deviation (0.05) and the equivalency criterion (0.1) indicating that the values were far too similar to be significantly different and actually influence the period.

our experiment then examined if mass influenced period proved to us that there was in fact no correlation between the weight of the bob and the period of the pendulum. this was determined since once trials were running, and graphed (table 5 and figure 2), we in fact saw no correlation. using our error bars, we did see overlap of the standard deviation (0.05) and the equivalency criterion (0.1) indicating that the values were far too similar to be significantly different and actually influence the period.

our last experiment examined if the length of the rope influenced the period. this experiment did in fact show a correlation. this was proven when after the experiment was finished and done running, the data and graphs (table 6, figure 3) showed no overlap of the error bars with a standard deviation of 0.05 and equivalency criterion of 0.1. this graph was therefore able to prove our initial prediction that length does in fact affect the period of the pendulum and explain to us that there was a positive correlation between the two, telling us that as the length increases so does the length of the period. to help reduce error in our experiment we decided to run the length again using a photogate to reduce the chance of random error and to lower our equivalency criterion and error. the same experiment was running, however with new lengths and put into a table and graphed (table 8, figure 4). the results not only proved our prediction correct yet again, however now with an error of 0.001s we were able to more soundly say that there was a positive relationship that was indeed an equation that was a power. 
the theoretical model for these experiments was determined by using the formula of  $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$
this formula is constructed by altering a circular function.  
using excel we were able to develop an equation of is 
$y=0.2839 x^{0.4342}$
our equation was fairly similar of the theoretical equation as  is equal to 0.200 and our value was at 0.2839 and our value of 0.4342 for the exponent is also fairly similar to 0.5.

	despite our experiment producing a very similar equation to that of the theoretical equation, there were still some random errors, and some limitations to our experiment. the first human error noted was our use of the stop watches. no human is nearly as precise as a photogate and there were times where we would mess up the timers due to our inability to press the button quick enough or as it was directly crossing the center. the second error noted, was the actual equipment there was once where the string had fallen during the swing, and this could have subsequently altered our measurement for that trial. these errors could be fixed by either using the photogate from the beginning or by double checking all the equipment to make sure it is stable and sound. there were no systematic errors present. 

	our major limitation was time during this experiment. the first lab session had a very large introduction, so we were only able to asses our one variable (angle of initial drop) and therefore had to use the data provided from the lab ta, which acted as our solution to the problem of not having data. 