discussion and conclusion:

the research question we were testing was “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?” we tested three different dependent variables; angle of release, mass of ball, and length of string. our independent variable for all tests was the period of the pendulum (in seconds.) we concluded that both angle of release and mass of ball does not impact the period of the pendulum. this can be seen in figures 2 and 4. the three data points make more or less a straight line, which means that the period length does not change when we change the dependent variable. the slight variances can be due to error involved in the experiment. the mathematical model of a pendulum can be expressed as $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. all of our experiments fit into this model. for our extensive experiment for string length, our line of best fit was a curved line represented by the equation $y=0.1997 x^{0.5008}$. our coefficient was very similar to the accepted mathematical value, which is 0.2007. this indicates that our data is accurate and correct. error that could have occurred in our experiments are systemic error and random error. systematic error is less likely to have impacted our data. this would happen if the stopwatches or the photogate was not calibrated. it is more likely that random error had an impact on our experimental data. examples of random error would be not stopping the stopwatch at the right time or using a slight force when letting the pendulum go. this would skew our data. to reduce random error, we can perform more trials and gather more data. we did this when we did our extended tests of string length vs period time. in this experiment we had many more string lengths and more trials in general. this decreased our random error. random error also decreased because we used the photogate instead of starting and stopping the stopwatch ourselves. during our lab period, we only had so much time to do our trials which would is a constraint that limits generalizability of our results. generalizability gets larger as sample size gets larger. in conclusion, mass and angle of release does not have an impact on the period of a pendulum, and string length does have an impact on the period of a pendulum. the smaller the string length, the smaller the period time and vice versa.