discussion and conclusion

for the first pendulum experiment, the question being asked was if a set of specific variables had any effect on the time it took the pendulum to complete one cycle (period). the variables tested were is  the length of the pendulum, the weight of the swinging mass, and the angle at which the pendulum was released. considering there are several variables that had to be tested, one variable was used as the independent variable and tested five times each. five oscillations were used through each test giving a more precise reading of the time as the average was taken to get the time of one oscillation as the angles used were relatively small. during this process, there were two controlled variables; say the weight was being tested, the two controlled variables would be the length and angle of the pendulum. the dependent variable through each test was the period of the pendulum. as these three variables were tested, the data gathered backed up one of three hypotheses created. the only variable that effected the period of the pendulum was the length of the pendulum.

going into the second experiment, two types of error were introduced (random error and systematic error). in this experiment, all variables that were tested in the first experiment were controlled and the period was being tested for precision. doing this allowed random error to be as low as possible. this experiment was tested ten times to gather a standard deviation to see if the data collected had a fit that matched the deviation. the standard deviation was extremely small which meant that random error was as limited as possible by hand.

for the third experiment, a photogate was used to time the period of the pendulum rather than using a stopwatch. using a photogate ruled out any random error as it presented the most precise timing measurements. using the length vs. time setup, a graph of the data gathered was created. the line that best fit the graph was that of a power graph. after gathering this information, the ta presented an equation to see if the result was accurate. the results deemed to be correct after plugging in the data gathered in the equation given. the use of the photogate played a huge role in decreasing random error to as little as possible. this determined the most precise and accurate results.