discussion and conclusion:



in this lab were are trying to find out what variables will affect the period of the pendulum. we decided that are three variables that could possibly have an affect on the period of the pendulum. these variables were the length of the string, mass attached to the pendulum  and finally the angle the pendulum that the pendulum is released. these variables were tested in small individual experiment. a experiment would have one of these variables as an independent variable while the other two were the control variables. and then this would be repeated to let the other two variables to be independence in their own experiment with a total of 3 small different independent variable experiments.

the first experiment that was conducted was the mass attached to the pendulum versus the period. in this experiment, the mass attached was the independent variable while the controlled variables were angle of release and length of the string. the mass was changed from 50 grams to 210 grams while the angle of release remained constant at 45о and the length of the string at 30 cm. in this experiment, it was found that the mass did not affect the period of the pendulum. this was able to be said because there was a small difference in time between the different masses due to fact it decreased by 0.001 second which can be seen in table 1 and figure 1. the second way to show that there is no relationship between the mass and period is by error bars. when errors bar on a graph overlap this means that there is no relationship between the dependant and independent variable. and if there is a relationship shown this could be because of error. in figure 1, we can see that the error bars are overlapping therefore this is no relationship between the mass attached and the period of the pendulum. 

the second experiment that was done was length of the string versus the period of the pendulum. the independent variable in this experiment will be the length of the string while the dependent will be the period. in this the controlled variables will be the mass attached and angle of release. two separate experiments were done for this independent variable. the experiment that was done on week one, lab 1, week two, lab 2. in week one, the naked eye and a timer were used to time the period. meanwhile the second experiment done on week 2, used a device called a photogate to time the period and had a uncertainty of 0.001. in the first experiment the angle of release was kept at a constant of 30 degrees and a mass of 110 grams. while the independent variable was changed from 30 cm to 10 cm. this experiment did show a relationship between the length of the string and period. as shown in figure 2, as the length of the string gets longer the period of the pendulum will increase. with that the error bars are too small to see in the graph due to scale but if enlarged the error bars do not overlap. this then also shows that there is a relationship between the dependent and independent variable. the second experiment was done by using a photogate. in this experiment the released angle was kept at a constant of 10 degrees while the mass attached was kept at 90 grams. the independent variable ranged from 29 cm to 129 cm. this experiment had an uncertainty of 0.001 while the other experiments had 0.015191. this experiment also showed a relationship between the independent variable and dependent variable. also shown in figure 3, as the length increased the period did too. in this graph 3, there is a nonlinear relationship between the dependent and independent variable which was power rule.  when power rule was used the r2 value was 1. both of these experiments show us that there is a relationship between the length of the string and period, but second experiment shows that there isn’t a linear relationship that was thought to be in week one experiment but rather a power rule relationship shown in week 2.

the third experiment that was done was between the of angle of release and the period. in this the independent variable was the angle the pendulum was release at while the dependent variable is the period. the controlled variable was the mass attached which was a 100 grams while the length of the string was 90 cm. in this experiment, it was found that there is no relationship between the angle of release and the period. this can be shown by looking at figure 4 and table 4. with that, the error bars in figure 2 do overlap therefore means that there is no relationship between the independent variable and dependent variable. 

	the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is . the theoretical model will be partially supported by the mathematical model this is because we are not able to account the effect of acceleration due to gravity which is accounted in the theoretical equation. meanwhile, we were able to test the effect of length on the period.  there are multiple random errors that can occur in this lab. these can be trying to stopping and starting the stopwatch at e same time the pendulum is being released and when the tenth period is over. the second error can be dropping the pendulum at a slightly higher or lower angle due to unsteady hands. these random errors can be reduced by taking more data points of the specific value of the independent variable and then taking the average to get a data point for that specific value of the independent variable. an example of this is done in the experiment mass attached versus the period. the second way to limit error is to use a photogate to calculate the period. this will eliminate the reaction time that can cause error from when it is released and when the timer is started and ended. there is also systematic errors. this can be air resistance and uncalibrated stopwatch. air resistance error can be reduced by taking fewer period because air resistance affects the later periods not the starting periods. this can be done by taking 5 periods instead of 10 periods. the stopwatch error can be eliminated by using a photogate because it is already calibrated or can be while a stopwatch can’t be calibrated. there is one thing that we weren’t able to test and that is if the acceleration due to gravity really affects the period. if this was done then we could fully see if the mathematical model supports the theoretical equation. 




