discussion and conclusion:



this goal of this experiment was to determine what factors affect the period of a pendulum. factors investigated included bob mass, release angle, and string length. 

to determine whether bob mass affects the period, the independent variable bob mass was varied with masses of 20g, 50g, 100g, 200g, and 300g, while release angle and string length were held constant (15° (from vertical) and 0.527 m (to center of mass of bob), respectively), and the period of the pendulum was measured using a stopwatch to time the first full period of the pendulum after release (see table 2 for experimental design plan). the data shown in table 5 revealed no effect of bob mass on period since the error bars for the data points in figure 2 would all overlap if doubled in length to show two standard deviations, so in accordance with the equivalency criterion these values are equivalent.

to determine whether release angle affects the period, the independent variable release angle was varied with angles of 5°, 10°, 15°, and 20° (all measured from vertical), while bob mass and string length were held constant (100g and 0.90m (to center of mass of the bob), respectively), and the period of the pendulum was measured using a stopwatch to time the first full period of the pendulum after release (see table 3 for experimental design plan). the data shown in table 6 revealed no effect of release angle on period since the error bars for the data points in figure 3 would all overlap if doubled in length to show two standard deviations, , so in accordance with the equivalency criterion these values are equivalent.

to determine whether string length affects the period, the independent variable string length was varied in two experiments designed the same way but using different instruments (see table 1 for experimental design plan). the first time, lengths of 0.2m, 0.4m, 0.6m, 0.8m, and 1.0m (measured from top of bob hook) were tested, while release angle and bob mass were held constant (45° (from vertical) and 50g, respectively), and the period of the pendulum was measured using a stopwatch to time the first full period of the pendulum after release. the second time, lengths of 0.15m, 0.3m, 0.55m, 0.65m, and 0.8m were tested and the period of the pendulum was measured using a photogate to time the first full period of the pendulum after release. the data shown in table 4 and table 7 revealed that string length did have affect period since the error bars for the data points in figure 1 and figure 4 would not overlap if doubled in length to show two standard deviations, so according to the equivalency criterion these values are significantly different.  the error bars are much smaller in figure 4 than figure 1 because the photogate is more precise than the stopwatch since it takes out the error involved with human reaction time.

the theoretical model predicts that as the string length of a pendulum increases, its period increases according to the equation $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, where t is the period of the pendulum, l is the length of the string, and g is gravity. when gravity and pi are plugged in and t and l are swapped for y and x, this theoretical model is equivalent to $y=2.007 x^{0.5}$. using the data for string length versus period produced using the photogate to time the period, we came up with a mathematical model that supported the theoretical model. the model that best fit the data (r2 is 0.9997) was a power model with the equation $y = 2.0301 x^{0.4177}$, where y is period in seconds and x is string length in meters. bob mass and release angle do not appear in the theoretical model because, as shown in our experiment, they do not affect the period of the pendulum.

some possible sources of error during our experiment include starting or stopping the stopwatch too early or too late, the string slipping a little bit further down after we measured it already, and the string rubbing against the protractor when we let the pendulum go. stopwatch issues would be random errors since they could happen in either direction, so they could be reduced by running more trials in each condition and taking an average of those trials. the string slipping or rubbing against the protractor are systematic errors since they would shift the data in one direction. to avoid these systematic errors, if we repeated this experiment we could tighten the string better before putting away the measuring stick and move the protractor further back before letting the pendulum swing.

one constraint which may affect the generalizability of these results is the fact that we only tested one type of string. other types of string may be more elastic or heavier or thicker and those factors may or may not affect results if testing was repeated with different string. also, we only tested in one environment. maybe at different altitudes the results would be different. other constraints include the low range of angles, masses, and string lengths tested. we can not generalize our results to angles below 5° or above 45°, masses below 20g or above 300g, or lengths below 0.15m or above 1m.
