Discussion
These two labs were designed so that a formula may be developed to relate the applied force on a system to the acceleration of the same system as to find how the acceleration of the system changes when the applied force changes. The first lab was a series of tests to find the formula while also determining the relationship between acceleration and applied force, which was found to be linear. The second lab was a test of our formula by applying it to another system with increased total mass to verify that the formula was accurate. 
The formula that was found based on the data gathered as shown in Table 1.1. The acceleration and applied force were then plotted on Graph 1.1 and a formula was determined using Microsoft Excel. The formula $a=4.9304 F - 0.046$ where a is the acceleration and F is the applied force, relates the two variables. This formula means that the hypothesis has not been disproven as there is a positive direct relation between the applied force and the resulting acceleration.
The experimental model can be related to Newton’s Second Law of $f_{net} = m a$, where FNET is the net force acting on an object or system, m is the mass of the system, and a is the acceleration of the system. The formula can be rewritten to solve for acceleration as $a = \frac{F_{NET}}{m}$. This can be broken down into the given theoretical model of  $a =\frac{f_{hanging}+f_{other}}{m}$(. This is equivalent to the format of our experimental equation where $a = C1 F + C2$, where C1 is (1 ÷ m) and C2 is (FOther ÷ m). C2 exists because even with an air track, there are still other forces still acting on the system, ranging from the minute amount of friction from the track, air resistance, and friction from the rotary motion detector. Together, these tiny forces are equal to C2. This breakdown of the formula was used in Lab 06 to calculate how much mass in a system was required to reach a certain rate of acceleration. As the mass was different, a new value had to be calculated for the hanging component of the mass to reach the exact acceleration required. However, the second constant was left as it was due to not knowing exactly how the forces depended on the mass as well as it being a such a small component of the overall acceleration. Because the string was light enough to be considered massless in these calculations, the acceleration remains constant throughout the progression of each test. If the string did have a substantial weight, the acceleration would increase exponentially as the hanging mass would increase as more and more of the string would go over the edge of the track and then contribute to the applied force. As the applied force increases, the rate at which the string is going over the edge also increases, which then further increases the rate of acceleration in a positive feedback loop until either all the system is over the edge or the horizontal component of the system is stopped by an outside force (e.g. the end of the track). As with any experiment, there were errors throughout the process. With the scale, there was random error with the measured weight while also potentially incorporating some systematic error if it was not calibrated properly. This can be remedied in future experiments by having a more precise scale and calibrating it immediately before the experiment. There may have also been some random error in the positioning of the cart with not placing it exactly 0.8 meters from the end of the track, but this could be prevented in future experiments by having a block that the cart is simply pushed up to before release, removing the potential for the cart to be too far to one side.  This experiment has constraints that limit the number of scenarios that the data gathered can be applied to, meaning that to apply the findings, the scenario must also have the same constants as this experiment, including the different types of friction or air resistance that applied to when the data was collected as well as mass. 
