conclusion:
The goal of the lab was to investigate how the acceleration of a system changes as the applied force changes. Through our experimentation we were able to reach a conclusion to the initial experimental hypothesis of whether the mass suspended from a system would affect the acceleration of the system. Graph 1 above shows the mathematical model that was created from the data that was collected in the trials. Upon examining the data, there seemed to be a linear relationship between the applied force on the system, or the suspended weight, and the acceleration of the system. The regression model that was created further supports this data, however, the R2 value of .9891 shows that the experiment may have been affected by errors that affected our results. However, as can be seen in Graph 1, all but three collected data points the error bars lie over the regression model, showing that the range of uncertainty that as calculated seems to match the expected values that the theoretical regression model would give for the same point. In the regression equation seen in Graph 1, the slope is only relevant in this experiment as it is directly related to the mass of the system, however the y intercept could be applied to other experiment. With all this data in mind, it can be seen that as the mass suspended from a frictionless system increases, the acceleration of that system increases in a linear fashion. 
	Other groups that also performed this experiment can be looked to compare the data that we collected. The photo on the left shows the experimental information for the “No Clue Group.” Their data mathced our collected data in the fact that it also represented the relationship between the applied force and the acceleration as linear model. However, “No Clue Group” was able to create a regression model with an R2 value of .9999, suggesting that the experimental data was much closer to what would be expected than the data that was collected in our trials. Our experimental models were also similar in the slope with our slope being 0.048146, and the slope of “No Clue Group” being .0489, which suggests that the total mass of our systems were similar. However, the y intercept of “No Clue Group” is lower at a value of 0.0424 versus our value of 0.147. The value found by “No Clue Group” may be more accurate than our found value due to the smallness of the R2 value found by “No Clue Group.”
	“Team Half Beard” also conducted the same experiment and thus should have found results that were comparable with our own. The picture on the right shows a summary of the findings of “Team Half Beard.” Like our own findings, “Team Half Beard” also related the data as a linear model, yet their calculated model had an R2 value of 0.9959 versus our value of 0.9891. The mathematical model of “Team Half Beard” had a slope of 0.0413 which was also similar to our calculated slope of 0.048146, whic suggested that the total mass of our systems was similar. However, our y intercept of 0.147 differed from that of “Team Half Beard” which found an intercpet of 0.0209, and again this could be due to “Team Half Beard” having a better R2 value which suggests that their experiment was not subject to as much error.
	The theoretical model for this experiment can be represented by the equation $a =\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$. This is like the mathematical model found of the general from $a = C1 w + C2$, where C1 is the slope of the regression and C2 is the found y intercept. However, the experimental model is different than the theoretical model as it considers some outside forces that are not accounted for in the theoretical model. The theoretical model assumes that there is no friction in the entire system and that the string is massless. However, these conditions were not true in the experiment and while it was assumed that the effect would be negligible, the affect of these forces still appeared in the mathematical model. As was said earlier, the mass of the system appears in the slope of the line that was generated from the regression model. However, if the string in the system did have a mass, this would in turn increase the mass of the system. However, as the string suspending the mass got longer, the force pulling the system would get larger meaning that the acceleration would no longer be a linear relationship, it would be better represented by a power relationship.
	Like any experiment, this experiment could have been subject to errors, both random and systematic. A possible random error could be imperfect air flow throughout the length of the air track, and this really could only be reduced by carefully measuring each air exit point to ensure the flow is consistent. A systematic error could be that the track surface itself may not have been completely level, which would shift all results one way or the other. To ensure this does not happen, the track levelness should be inspected before beginning the experiment. Frictional affects on the pulley are another possible systematic error, as this would also shift the results in one direction. This could not be completely eliminated as friction cannot be completely eliminated but could be reduced by ensuring that pulley has as little friction as possible. The balance used to measure the mass of the system may also have been systematically affected, thus all applied force readings would be affected as well. Air resistance could have caused a random error in the experiment. This could have been on the suspended mass or the cart and this could only be eliminated by performing the experiment in a vacuum. 
	The potential for this many errors would limit the overall generalizability of the experiment. The force of friction for instance must be assumed that it has a negligible impact on the experiment, yet any other experiment of a similar nature would most likely use different equipment with different forces of friction. While this experiment allowed the general conclusion that the mass suspended from a system affects the acceleration of the system, it did not give data that could be related directly to an experiment testing the same thing with different objects. The experiment also only accounted for the mass of one system, which makes the results gleaned from the experiment only true for this one system, so it has to be assumed that this relationship would hold true for other systems. 