discussion and conclusion

the research question addressed in the three labs conducted was: what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? i concluded that only length impacts the period. angle of release can be eliminated because when looking at figure 1 there is no clear trend, the error bars overlap a little in most cases (meaning that there is no real change), and the range of the data is only .15 seconds for a difference of 12○. from this, it can be said that angle of release doesn’t impact period for small swings. another variable tested was mass. looking at figure 2, all error bars overlap which means that the time recorded was barely changing, the range was .06 seconds when the mass was changed by a total of 200 grams from start to finish, and there is a big outlier in what looks like a trend (but again, the error bars overlapping means there is no true change, it may have been because of random error). based on these three things, it can be said that mass doesn’t affect period for small strings. the last variable tested was length. looking at figure 3, the error bars only overlap a little bit in some cases, there seems to be a linear trend, and the range of the data was .356 seconds when the length changed 20 cm over time. therefore, from lab 01 (data) and lab 02 (error bars), it can be concluded that only length affects the period for small swings. lab 03 helped to cement this conclusion because when retesting how length affects period using a photogate, with an extreme range of lengths tested, it could be seen that there was a trend in the data. however, this time it was concluded that it was not linear but was a power. this can be seen by looking at figure 4, where error bars are not included because they are so small they can’t be seen due to collecting data with a photogate. this rules out overlapping error bars which may lead to a conclusion of length not affecting period. second, the time of the period changed by over a second for the data tested. lastly, there is a best fit line that is $y=0.2733 x^{0.4424}$ and this has an r2 value of .9988 which means the line of best fit is almost exact to the data points. 

the theoretical mathematical model for length is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. this model is in meters and the equation derived from the data is in centimeters so that’s one reason the theoretical model looks different than the equation stated above. the model our data shows does not take gravity into consideration which is another reason our model looks different. we were close to the square root with .4424 vs .5. these few details, along with random error, results in the theoretical model supporting the data and graph from table 9 and figure 4. this model also supports the other findings that mass, and angle of release do not affect period because these two variables are not in the theoretical model for time of period for a pendulum.

systemic and random errors occurred in lab 01. a systematic error was using a protractor and how it is not the most precise tool that could be used to measure angle. there is a lot of random error in lab 01 because of the method used for timing. being able to start/stop the stopwatch at the same place each time is impossible with human reflexes. both errors were remedied by lab 03. the systematic error due to a protractor was no longer necessary because angle of release does not impact period and therefore it didn’t need to be measured out for each trial. the timing error was greatly reduced by using a photogate to determine time of a period. the photogate has a systematic error of .001 second compared to doing it by hand had a standard deviation of ~.018 seconds (seen in table 8).

some constraints are not having a tool for each aspect of the experiment (something to release at the same angle, something to measure the sting more accurately, etc.). also, gravity was not considered for this experiment which does have an impact. more trials would need to be taken to have more accurate results and to have results that could be more generalized.