discussion and conclusion

	

	            this series of experiments investigated which of the variables of mass, length of string, and angle of release had an impact on the period of a pendulum swing. in the first experiment, each of these three independent variables was investigated using a stop watch to measure the period. the first variable tested was mass. looking at figure 1, the claim cannot be made that the mass impacts the period of a pendulum because the error bars overlap. another variable tested was the angle of release of the pendulum. looking at figure 3, the claim can also not be made that the angle of release impacts the period of a pendulum because all of the error bars overlap. the third variable tested was the length of the string of the pendulum, which appeared to have a linear relationship. looking at figure 2 alone, however, the claim again cannot be made that the length of the string impacts the period of a pendulum because 2 of the error bars overlap.

	            in the second experiment, we recognized that there was a significant amount of error associated with our experimental technique and in the uncertainty of the instruments used in our first experiment. a systematic error in the first experiment could have been not zeroing the balance correctly without the object first, which could be reduced by checking with a ta first to verify that the balance is correctly zeroed. a random error in our first experiment was the reaction time of the person with the stopwatch, which could be eliminated by using a sensor type of instrument such as a photogate or allowing the pendulum to swing 5 times and calculating the period by dividing the overall time by 5. another random error may be the tightness of the string pulled which can be reduced by having the same person pull to release every time. one more random error could be the precision of the angle at release, which could be reduced by using a protractor with more markings so the range of uncertainty is smaller. running more trials in the future would help to reduce random errors. a constraint of this experiment that may limit the generalizability of our results is the presence of air friction. 

	              in the third experiment, we decreased our range of uncertainty by using a photogate to measure the period. we originally saw in experiment 1 that we could not claim that the period of the pendulum was affected by the length of the string. however, when the experiment was repeated with more trials and a more accurate measuring tool of a photogate, we can see in figures 4 and 5 that there is a very strong correlation between the length of the string and the period of a pendulum. our hypothesis that a linear model would be the best mathematical model for the length of the string and the period of a pendulum was rejected since figure 5 shows a power relationship with a higher r2 value of .99999 as compared to the r2 value of .99676 of the linear model in figure 4. 

	                the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is    with l representing the length of the string and g representing gravity. figure 5 shows that our data is consistent with the theoretical power model. also considering the theoretical model, it makes sense that neither the mass nor the angle of release impacted the period of a pendulum in our first experiment because they are not in this equation.