conclusion:
How does acceleration changes when force changes was the research question? From Table 1, as the hanging force increases so does the acceleration. We can make a claim that force and acceleration are directly proportional to each other. My colleagues and I had some systematic issue when making the error bar, but it was supposed to be small and nearly unseen. The uncertainty was also small it ranges from 0.005 to 0.03. From figure 1, We can say that as the applied force or the hanging force increase, the acceleration also increases. The graph shown shows almost a perfect linear line with the correlation (R2) closer to 1. This experiment was also done by three other groups and their finding are included in this report. Figure 3-5 shows a summary of their findings. All three groups data support our claim which was as the applied force increases so does the acceleration. The theoretical equation $f= m a$ was derived from Newtons Second Law and the mathematical model was $A= C1 w+C2$. Our experimental model was $Y=0.0019 x+0.009$. Group 1 had an experimental model of $Y = 0.0051 x$, Group 2 had an experiment model of $Y= 0.0061 x+0.1119$ and Group 3 had an experimental model of $Y= 0.0042 x-0.081$. From the data, the y-intercept was very small, and Group 1 did not have any y-intercept. We all had a different experimental model, but their models also agreed with on claim on the relationship of force and acceleration. This is because the other group conducted an experiment identical to ours. The difference in the experimental model can be due to both systematic and random error. The systematic error that could have occurred includes offset error. This is when the system is not reading the actual value of the objects because it wasn’t zeroed. This will affect the mass of the cart and the bobber. Another systematic error could occur if students avoid catch the cart at the end which can damage the rotary motion detector. Random error can be not passing the strings over the largest diameter pulley on the rotary motion detector. If this occur the newton law program will not work proper. A major constraint could be electricity shortage since most parts of the experiment used electricity to function, but this was not a problem when we were doing this experiment.
After comparing our research to that of the other group members, we can agree to Newton second law which is $F=m a$. We can also say that force and acceleration are directly proportional to each other.

