discussion



the purpose of this experiment was to answer the central question of; “what affects the period of a pendulum for small swings?” in the experiment where the mass of the pendulum was changed, the period length did not change as the mass of the pendulum was increased as shown in figure 2. while the period length does fluctuate when the masses change, the values lay within the equivalency criterion, shown by the error bars on the graph in figure 2, of the other measurements leading to the conclusion that the mass of the pendulum does not affect the period length.

	in the experiment where the angle of release was changed, the period length did not change as the angle of release was increased as seen in figure 3. the period length did slightly fluctuate between the different angle of releases, however, each value lays within the equivalency criterion of all other measurements, shown by the error bars in the graph of figure 3. it was determined that the angle in which the pendulum was released does not affect the period length.

	in the experiment where the string length was changed, the period length got longer as the string length increased as shown in figure 1. the period length values lay outside the equivalency criterion, shown by the error bars on the graph of figure 1, which lead to the determination that the differences between the values was significant. it was determined that string length does affect the period length of a pendulum. since this is the only factor found to have an effect on the period length more data was collected to form a mathematical model that can be used to determine period length. five new lengths of string were used along with a photogate to measure new period lengths in order to form a mathematical model. as shown in figure 4, the data follows a power equation trend of $y=0.82044567 x$. this equation has an r2 value of 0.9991 indicating that the data fits well to the trendline. this trendline is similar to the theoretical model of $y=2$ thus the data collected in the experiment supports the theoretical model.

	random errors in this experiment included unintentional fluctuation in release angle, inaccurate string length measurements, as well as multiple individuals making measurements for the same values. these random errors were reduced by running multiple trials in each experiment, having everyone keep the same measurement job, and re-measuring the string and weight each trial. a systematic error in this experiment was the reaction time of the timekeeper. this error was reduced by using a photogate to measure time instead. constraints that limit the generalizability of the data collected in this experiment include independent variables covering a relatively small range of measurement, the pendulum only moved in two dimensions, and the small amount of replication.