discussion and conclusion:

the research question at hand is as follows:  what experimental factors impact the period of a pendulum? three experiments were performed in order to determine what factor(s) affect the amount of time it takes for a pendulum to complete one swing, also known as the period. each experiment included a different factor, or independent variable, with the same dependent variable, which was the length of time in seconds of a period of a pendulum.

the first independent variable tested was the length of string holding the pendulum. the control variables included the following is   the mass of pendulum equaled fifty grams and the angle of release equaled thirty degrees. the lengths of string varied between five and fifteen centimeters for lab module 01 is   experimental design completed on august 29, 2018. the graph produced from this experiment indicated a direct linear relationship. the following claim was made is   the length of string holding the pendulum is directly related to the period of a pendulum.

the first independent variable tested was determined to be the experimental factor that affected the mathematical method of a pendulum. further experimentation in lab module 03 is   mathematical modeling in which more trials of different measurements ranging from five to fifty inches were completed. these varying lengths and trials were used to create an excel graph of length of string vs. period of pendulum. a “power” graph was determined to be the best trendline for the data.

the second independent variable tested was the angle of release of the string holding the pendulum. the control variables included the following is   the mass of the pendulum equaled fifty grams and the length of string holding the pendulum equaled fifteen centimeters. the angles of release varied between twenty and sixty degrees for lab module 01 is   experimental design completed on august 29, 2018. the graph produced from this experiment was inconclusive so given graphs were used to indicate a direct relationship for angles of release greater than thirty degrees and a lack of relationship for angles of release less than thirty degrees. in the case of this experiment, the following claim was made is   the angle of release of the string holding the pendulum is not related to the period of a pendulum.

the third independent variable tested was the mass of the pendulum. the control variables included the following is   the length of string holding the pendulum equaled fifteen centimeters and the angle of release equaled thirty degrees. the masses of the pendulum varied between seventy and one hundred ten grams for lab module 01 is   experimental design completed on august 29, 2018. the graph produced from this experiment indicated a lack of relationship. the following claim was made is   the mass of the pendulum is not related to the period of a pendulum.

using the excel graph including the length of string holding the pendulum versus the period of the pendulum from lab module 03 is   mathematical modeling, the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum was determined to be $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ where “t” equals the  period in seconds, “l” equals the length of string in meters or feet, and “g” equals the acceleration due to gravity, which is 9.8 m/s2 or 32 ft/s2. a “power” graph was determined to be the best trendline for the data as its r2 value was the closest to that of one. a power graph is where the trendline equation is “y” equals the value of “x” to a power, such as $y=x^2$. the trendline determined through experimentation indicated the power on the “x” to be approximately one-half, which results in $y=x^{1/2}$ or $y=\sqrt{x}$. this power on the “x” was close to that of the final mathematical model given by the teaching assistant. the length was the only factor tested that did indeed affect the period so it was included in the mathematical model as “l”. gravity is always present so it was also included in the mathematical model as “g”. 2π was a constant given by the teaching assistant as such constants are unable to be determined through this lab’s experimentation.

the angle of release and mass of pendulum did not affect the period so neither were included in the mathematical model. the angle of release does not affect the period because a smaller angle of release causes the pendulum to move slower, but has less distance to span in order to complete a period compared to a larger angle of release which causes the pendulum to move faster, but has more distance to span in order to complete a period. both amount of times it takes for a pendulum to complete a period will be equal. the mass of the pendulum does not affect the period because the mass is directly proportional to the force of the pendulum. the force of the pendulum is not involved in the mathematical model of the period of a pendulum because the only force that affects the period is gravity.

as in most experiments, there were errors present, both random and systematic. one random error included not starting or stopping the stop clock at the exact moment in time the period began and ended. this may have been due to the user’s error and the user’s reaction time being slightly off. this may have produced inaccurate and unprecise measurements and results. the use of the photogate sensor reduced this random error as the photogate sensor’s uncertainty value was only 0.001 seconds compared to the stopwatch’s calculated uncertainty value of around 0.1 to 0.2 seconds. one systematic error included an uncalibrated photogate sensor/stopwatch. this may have been due to the length of time since the previous calibration not being recent enough before experimentation. this may have produced precise yet inaccurate measurements and results. the calibration of the photogate sensor and/or stopwatch before each experiment may have reduced the systematic error and made the measurements more accurate.

one restraint in a college level physics lab is an incompletely controlled experiment environment. there is air resistance present in a lab room whereas in a vacuum there is no air resistance. with no air resistance present, more exact measurements may have been recorded, which would have produced a more accurate and generalized theoretical mathematical model compared to the one determined.