discussion and conclusion



the purpose of this lab was to investigate what the period of a pendulum is affected by. the first experiment was helpful in a preliminary sense. it was determined that the period of the pendulum was impacted by the length of string, but not by the angle of release or the mass of the bob. the period of the pendulum is affected by the length of the string, this can be seen in figure 1 and table 5, as the length of the string increases, the time it takes to complete a period also increases. however, the angle of release and mass were determined to not have an impact on the period.  by looking at table 6 and figure 2 it is apparent that as the angle of release increases, the period stays the same. similarly, by looking at table 7 and figure 3, as the mass increases, the amount of time it takes to complete a period stays the same. the second experiment was helpful in determining the level of uncertainty by taking the standard deviation of 10 periods with consistent length, mass and angle. this is shown in table 8. this was helpful to determine that the actual value is within ±0.113 seconds of the recorded value. lastly, in lab 03 the photogate device was helpful in determining the average period of a certain length (table 9, figure 4). through the data obtained from this procedure a mathematical model was able to be determined, obtaining a high  value and a mathematical model that is very close to the theoretical mathematical model (figure 4). 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is . this can also be expressed as. our data fits with this model given that our obtained equation is . this further confirms that the period of a pendulum is impacted by the length of the string. the graph (figure 4) shows an exponential curve which is not portrayed by the other independent variables tested; angle of release (figure 2) and mass of bob (figure 3). 

random errors include tension on the string, not correctly using stop watch and the way the pendulum was let go each time. these errors could be reduced by having multiple teammates record the time and ensure that the string had consistent tension each time. systematic errors include measuring the string incorrectly, weighs not properly being weighed before using (mass just assumed), and if there was something mechanically wrong with the stop watch. to reduce these systematic errors, the weights could be weighed before using, using multiple stopwatches and measure the string of the pendulum each time, for each trial. there were not many constraints in this lab, however adding larger number of trials can make the data more generable. adding large amounts of trials was not able to be done in the lab due to time constraints. 


