discussion and conclusion

the research question being investigated in this lab is what factors affect the time it takes for a pendulum to complete one full swing. three similar experiments were done to test three factors that could possibly affect the period of a pendulum. the length, whether short or longer, of the pendulum was tested to see if it affected how long the pendulum took to complete a full swing. figure 1 shows a graph of length versus period of the pendulum and shows a positive non-linear relationship between the two. as the length of the pendulum was increased, its period also increased. then the angle of release of the pendulum was compared to its period, using a range of angles from small to large. figure 2 shows a graph of this data. there is no relationship between angle of release and the period; as shown in the graph, as the angle was increased the period stayed relatively the same. this indicates that the angle of release does not affect a pendulum’s period. and finally, the mass of the pendulum was compared to its period when using different masses. looking at figure 3 also shows no relationship between mass and period; with an increase in mass, the pendulum’s period stayed relatively the same.  is the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum. the data for the testing length versus period of a pendulum fits the model because the larger the l value (length), the larger the t (period), which matches the relationship i found between length and period of a pendulum. the line of best for figure 1 (length vs period) is a polynomial curve while data for the factors that did not impact the period of pendulum in figures 2 (angle vs period) and 3 (mass vs period) have a straight line of slope zero. random errors occurred when starting and stopping the stopwatch during the experiments. to reduce this error, instead of starting and stopping the stopwatch for each trial, the stopwatch was left to run the entire experiment. after ten swings of the pendulum, the final time was divided by 10 to get the average period of the pendulum for that length. this way there is only two opportunities for random error, once when the stopwatch is started and once when the stopwatch is stopped, instead of twice for each of the ten trials for a total of 20 opportunities for random error. other errors such as measuring the length of the pendulum, and angle of release can be reduced by using the same exact tools to measure with every time for all experiments. constraints that may limit the generalizability of my results could be the number of trials done for each of the three experiments. the more trials i would have done, the more data i had to work with and could be generalize the fact that length affects period, while mass and angle of release do not.