discussion and conclusion

	the research question that is being investigated is, how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied forces changes? each of the two experiments helped determined the research question. on part i or the first experiment we made a hypothesis about the outcome of the relationship between mass and acceleration. the prediction was correct according to the data and graph presented above. the hanging mass is affecting the acceleration of the system, the more mass added the faster the gold cart accelerates as shown on the table and graph. error bars are included but they are so small that it can not be seen, which indicate the accuracy of our data. also, the result of the other groups is taken as shown on the picture above titled group#1 results, there result compare to ours is very similar they have a slope of 5.2076 which is lower than the one that we got which was 5.8112, it was also closer to the theoretical slope that we have calculated 5.2910. group #1 slope is more accurate than the one we got. the result of another group is also taken as shown on the picture above titled group#2 results is different to our result they have a lower slope than both ours and group#1’s slope they have a slope of 4.639. with the different results i support the result of group#1 because of the slope that they got was closer to the theoretical slope we calculated and group#2 has a lower slope which increases their error percentage.

	on the second experiment. an acceleration was given, and the mass of the system had to be found. the mass given to us was 0.473 m/s2. first the theoretical equation needed to be found, the theoretical equation that we had was , where ma is the mass of the cart and mb is the hanging mass. the calculation was done shown on the picture above titled calculations. after the calculation we had a mass of 13.87g, we first had to solve for the force that the system requires to have the acceleration that was given to us. our experimental acceleration was 0.438m/s2 which was within 0.1 of the given acceleration, 0.473m/s2 

we had an error of 7.9%. if there was any error, it was due to the uncertainties of the mass of the bobs that was measured with the balanced. all uncertainties of are included into the table of data above. there are very few systematic and random errors, the only thing that could have totally mess up the data that we have would be the negligible forces such as friction and air resistance. both of those forces was not taken into existence but we later on found out that it was there when we had a y-intercept on our equation.