discussion and conclusion:

	how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes?  answering this question was the purpose of this experiment.  an experiment was conducted to find an answer to this question.  the experiment consisted of placing masses on the end of a string that was connected to a cart on a track.  the string was draped over a pulley and hung vertically.  an air compressor pushed the cart to the end of the track, and the acceleration of the cart was measured.  seven different trials were conducted, with the amount of mass hanging on the end of the string increasing with each trial.  fishing bobbers were used as masses in this experiment.  six bobbers were used in total, with the average mass of each bobber equaling about 0.00498 kilograms.  the total mass of the system remained constant through all of the trials, with a mass of 179.4 grams.  this was accomplished by placing all six bobbers on the cart for trial one (and zero bobbers on the end of the string), placing five bobbers on the cart and one bobber on the end of the string for trial two, etc.  after all data was collected, the hanging mass was converted from grams to newtons and plotted on graph 1. applied force vs. acceleration.  a trendline was plotted to fit this data, and the resulting equation was found to be $y=4.5412 x + 0.014$ with an r² value of 0.9842.  it can be concluded from this data that there is a positive correlation between the applied force on a system and the acceleration of a system.  as the applied force of a system increases, the acceleration of the system also increases.


	looking at the data from group 4 (pictured in figure 1. data from group 4) and group 5 (pictured in figure 2. data from group 5), it can be concluded that their data supports my group’s claim.  both group 4 and group 5’s data indicates that as the applied force increases, the acceleration of the system also increases.  this supports our findings because our data also indicated that when the applied force on a system increases, the acceleration of the system also increases.

	the experimental model and theoretical model both indicate a positive correlation between the applied force on a system and the acceleration of the system.  forces present in this experiment other than the hanging weight are gravity and friction.  gravity pulls down on the hanging weight, which can be seen by looking at table 2. applied force vs. acceleration data.  as the applied force increases (as the hanging weight increases), the acceleration of the system increases.  this is due to the fact that as the weight of the hanging mass increases, the force of the hanging mass also increases, because force is equal to mass times acceleration.  the greater force of the hanging mass causes the cart to accelerate faster, because the greater force of the hanging mass pulls the system more quickly.  there is possible friction in two places is  the friction between the cart and the track, and the friction between the string and the pulley.  these forces can be seen by viewing table 2. applied force vs. acceleration data, once again.  looking at this table, the acceleration does not increase by the exact same interval between trials.  this could be due to a number of things, including experimental errors, but it could be in part due to the forces of friction acting on the system.  the track and pulley are very close to being frictionless, but a true frictionless system is impossible to create in this experiment.  as the applied force increases, greater friction forces act on the system, which slows down the overall acceleration of the system. 

	the mass of the system can be seen by looking at table 2. applied force vs. acceleration data.  the first column on the left lists the tested applied forces.  these forces were calculated by multiplying the hanging mass (in kilograms) by the force of gravity, 9.8 m/s².

	the non-massless string used in this experiment to connect the hanging mass to the cart might affect uniform acceleration of the cart.  once again, there is a force of friction present between the pulley and the string.  as the hanging mass increases, the force of friction between the pulley and the string will also increase.  the force of friction acts against the system, so as the applied force increases, the force of friction acting against the system will increase, which leads to a non-uniform acceleration of the cart.

	errors that may have been present in this experiment include incorrect calibration of the scale to take the mass of the bobbers, not accounting for frictional forces, and rounding error when taking the mass of the bobbers.  incorrect calibration of the scale would have led to an incorrect mass of the bobbers and of the system, which would skew the data recorded.  to correct this possible error, a scale that is known to be calibrated correctly should be used in the future.  not accounting for frictional forces in the system would have led to inaccurate data be recorded, as well.  to correct this error in the future, a means to measure the frictional forces in the system should be used.  finally, rounding error when taking the mass of the bobbers could have led to skewed results from trials.  the mass of all six bobbers used was taken, and then divided by six to determine the mass of each bobber individually.  this value was found to be 0.00498 kilograms, which is a rounded value.  since the value is not exact, the results from the taken trials may be skewed.  to eliminate this error, the mass of each bobber used should have been taken so that an exact value could be used.

	constraints in this experiment that may limit the generalizability of the results include a non-frictionless system, and insufficient time to conduct more trials.  if this experiment could have been conducted using a completely frictionless system, the results may be different.  likewise, if many more trials could have been conducted, the results could support the data found, which would increase the generalizability of the results.



it should also be noted that both the uncertainty and the standard deviation was calculated for the data found, and the uncertainty was used in graph 1. applied force vs. acceleration, not the standard deviation.