discussion and conclusion



the question being investigated in this lab is; “what properties affect the period of a pendulum system”. the independent variables tested were mass, angle of release, and string length. during all tests, as the independent variables changed value, the other variables were controlled.

each test provided data which was then plotted onto a graph. for the mass and angle graphs (a and b), the slope of the line was nearly 1 in all cases, with the error bars overlapping almost completely and negating any variance. this indicates that the data did not change from one variation of the independent variable to the next. this means that there was and is no relationship between the two variables (mass, and angle) and the period of a pendulum. it also proves that both hypotheses and predictions for tests a and b to be incorrect.  

	for test c and graph c, the slope of the line was clearly positive, with each data point escaping the error bars of the last. the graph represents and fits a power model. this indicates that the data varied significantly from one value of the independent to the next, indicating some form of relationship. from this data we can conclude that the data is significant, and that the hypothesis was correct. due to the upward trend of the data, we can also conclude that the prediction is also correct. 

	this data was confirmed using test d. test d utilized a photogate device to mitigate error due to human reaction times. the error bars decreased, and the data was significant. test d and graph d indicate a similar sloping trend as test c, and further support the hypothesis.  

	the theoretical mathematical model for this pendulum is derived from the equation $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. t represents the time of the period, x represents the string length in meters, and g indicates the acceleration of gravity (-9.8m/s^2). this equation can be re-arranged into a power formula to give a formula of $t = 0.27 x^{0.5}$. when we compare this to our equation created from the expiriment, we find they are very similar, with the experimental equation being $t =0.28 x^{0.437}$. for instance, plugging in a value of 30 for x in the theoretical model gives a period of 1.48 while the same value outputs 1.238 for the experimental model. despite the experimental model being close to the theoretical model, error and constraints have clearly created some variance. 

	this error in the experimental model is constrained due to a small amount of data. if the model accounted for over 100 points of data, the experimental model would have most likely been closer to or the same as the theoretical model.

	a major source of random error lies in the free nature of the pendulum. it is moving in more than just the x and y space, but also the z space. due to how the experiment was set up, the z axis was not controlled. this means that any variation on the z axis will not be accounted for experimentally and would have ultimately led to deviations in the data. this could be fixed with some form of jig that held the pendulum in the exact spot at the exact angle needed. another source of error arises from the human measurement of time using the stopwatch. this error is most likely random as the start and stop would rely on human reflexes. this would either overshoot or undershoot time values. this error was fixed through the usage of the photogate, which removed all human error from the equation. a third source of random error could have been due to improper measurement procedures when measuring the string in part d. this would have resulted in random variations in the relationship, increasing error. to mitigate this error, the string should be measured from the top and center of the apparatus at the point which the string attaches, and to the center of the gravity of the bob. these random errors may have contributed slightly of the variation in the experimental model.

	systematic error may have occurred due to inaccurately weighed weights, a stretched or shrunk tape measure, an inaccurate protractor, or an inaccurate photogate. of all of these potential errors, the tape measure is the most influential on the recorded data, as the length has a recorded affect on the period. any form of length related error will have the most influence on the data. also, any form of time measuring error will also have a large influence on the data. both of these systematic errors may have been the cause of the variation in the experimental model. 

	this experiment proves that mass and release angle have no bearing on a pendulum’s period. rather, the length of the string directly relates to the period of a pendulum.