conclusion:
For Lab 1, a graph was generated for each experiment, and then analyzed to see if further testing was necessary to determine a correlation between factors and period, or a lack thereof. If testing was needed, the experiment was run again with an automatic photogate timer to eliminate human error from the timer, which had an uncertainty of approximately .8 seconds.
For the length of string, it was unclear whether or not there was a relationship from the first graph. The error bars were extremely close to overlapping, as seen in Figure A .  Because of this, we ran a second test using the photogate timer. From this experiment, we were able to clearly conclude that our hypothesis was correct, and that the length of the period increased in relation to the length of string. The error bars were too small to see, which is indicated in Figure C and the equation for the best fit line of the data was $y=0.3219 x^{0.4}$ with an R-value of .9949, indicating the best fit line represented the data pattern very well. The equation also supported the theory, as the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, which takes into account the length of the pendulum in determining the period of a pendulum, but no other factors that we tested, further backing up our conclusion that the period of a pendulum is affected by the length of the pendulum.
For the weight of the pendulum, we were able to determine after the first experiment that there was no correlation between weight and the length of the period. The graph appeared to represent an oscillating pattern, but once adding error bars, as seen in Figure I , it was apparent that the pattern was just coincidental, and that there was no relationship, as the error bars fully overlap.
For the angle of release of the pendulum, it appeared from the first experiment that there may have been a relationship. The error bars just slightly overlapped (Figure E), and after accounting for uncertainty, it appeared there was a relationship, so a second experiment in Lab 3 was conducted. However, the second experiment shed light on the discrepancies in the angle of release vs. pendulum period relationship. The error bars significantly overlapped, and the best fit line, $y=1.4219 x^{0.0285}$ had an R-value of .9477 (Figure G) which was not accurate enough to best represent the data. From these results, we could determine there was no correlation.
Errors in the data could have occured due to random error, like having people time the length of the period with a handheld timer in Lab 1, which was concluded to have an uncertainty of approximately .7 seconds. There was also uncertainty associated with the angle of release of the pendulum of approximately 3 degrees. The error of handheld timer was resolved by using the photogate timers. The angle of release uncertainty could be dealt with by using a protractor attached to the system, as using a handheld one proved difficult to guarantee the angle was correct. Constraints of the experiment included the length of string provided, which could not function past 200 centimeters, which generalizes the experiment to a very small pendulum. The same can be said for weight, as the pendulum provided was very small, only 50 grams, and could only increase up to 200 grams. 