discussion and conclusion

the research question being investigated during this experiment was “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?” this question was researched with three different variables is  length of the string, mass on the string, and angle of release. for each experiment, only one of the variables was manipulated, the rest remained control variables.

the first experiment, completed during lab 01, evaluated the effects of string length on swing period. according to table 4 and figure 1, data generated from this experiment, there is a strong positive correlation between these two variables. although the error bars overlapped slightly for a few points, the overall trend is clear that as string length increases, so does the swing period for the pendulum. only the error bars next to each other overlapped, so it is still visible that there is a positive correlation between string length and swing period. when investigating the research question, the claim can be made that string length does have an effect on swing period of a pendulum.

the second experiment, completed during lab 01, evaluated the effects of mass on swing period. table 5 and figure 2 show the results of the data given from this experiment. the graph shows the visual that there is no correlation between these two variables. this is known because the points on the graph are random, and they don’t correlate in a certain direction. all of the error bars also overlap with each other, so it cannot be estimated where the true value lies. answering the research question, the claim can be made that mass does not have an effect on swing period of a pendulum.

the third experiment, completed during lab 01, evaluated the effects of angle of release on swing period. table 6 and figure 3 represent the data collected from this experiment. they showed a slight positive correlation between the two variables, but it was not very significant. the error bars on figure 3 also show that a correlation cannot be shown for these variables. the error bars overlap significantly, so one cannot estimate where the true value lies. because one cannot distinguish where the data point lies within the error bars, it is also not possible to know whether there is a true correlation between angle of release and period of swing. looking at the research question, the claim can be made that angle of release does not significantly affect swing period for a pendulum.

during lab 02 on september 4th, the uncertainty used for these three experiments was calculated to be +/-0.134. this was calculated by performing 10 trials while keeping string length, mass, and angle of release constant. the swing period measured for each of the trials were recorded and put into an excel sheet. using excel’s formula builder, the standard deviation of all 10 swing periods was calculated to be +/-0.134. this was then used as the standard value of uncertainty for all three experiments using hand timers. error bars were also made for each graph during this lab. the error bars were customized to use the uncertainty of .134, but the bars were doubled so as to show a visual representation of the data with 95% accuracy. this allowed for us to be sure that there was only a 5% likelihood that the data obtained was due to chance alone. 

since string length appeared to be the only variable that affected swing period, it was retested during lab 03, but a photogate was used so as to help eliminate human error. table 7 represents the experiment where length of string vs period of swing was retested using the photogate. this allowed for a more accurate data collection because human errors no longer attributed to the results. the results from this experiment agreed with the results from the previous experiment that examined these two variables but by hand. the graph generated, figure 4, should’ve had the strongest correlation using a power function, but that was not the case for ours. when graphed with a power function line of best fit, the r-squared value was 0.9328, and the equation generated was $y=0.5404 x^{0.2909}$. the theoretical equation that is used is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ where t represents the wing period, x represents the string length, and g represents gravity.

this equation does not match the one generated from the data using the photogate. there are several possible errors that could’ve occurred to cause this result. two errors are the fact that only 5 different string lengths were tested, and each length was only tested once due to time constraints. this could have led to random error due to the weight not being held at the exact angle each time. there also could have been errors with the timer not being started or stopped in the same spot for each length. had more trials been conducted with each length, the data could have been averaged in order to reduce this random error. likewise, more string lengths could have been tested in order to plot more data points which could have fit the curve better.

the first three experiments had random error associated with them due to human errors in timing. we tried to eliminate this by staying consistent with the different group members doing each job. this hopefully lead to smaller numbers of inconsistent random errors, but it is still likely that each person was not exact with their measurements each time. again, a larger number of trials could have helped reduce this random error, but there were time constraints that didn’t allow for more trials to be performed.

in the last experiment with the photogate, it is possible that a systematic error occurred with the photogate system. if the measurement was slightly off with the timer each time by the same amount, this would lead to slightly incorrect data and an incorrect equation generated. this could be fixed in the future by making sure the instrument is calibrated before use.

overall, this experiment lead to the conclusion that length of string affects the swing period on a small pendulum, and mass and angle of release have no effect on the swing period.