Conclusion/Discussion:
The purpose of this lab was to determine ‘How does acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes?’ The experiment and the resulting mathematical model helped us find the relationship between the independent and dependent variables, and how one can be used to find the other. From the data points and graph from week 1, there is a positive linear relationship between the two. 



Both groups 3 and 5’s findings support our group’s claim. Theoretical model is  $F=m a$  where m is the mass of system or .1891 kg. Therefore $a=5.288 F$. Our experimental model, from our graph is  $a=4.86 F+0.0106$. These are very similar, but not identical. They are both linear, which fits with Newton’s second law. The slope of the experimental model is also very close to the slope of the theoretical model, which is also derived from Newton’s second law. One notable difference is that the y-intercept of the experimental model is not entirely 0. These differences are likely due to friction of both the cart and the pulley. The mass of the system appears as the inverse of the slope of our model. This comes from Newton’s Second Law, which is summarized by $F=m a$. The mass of the string could also have affected the force extended on the cart. This will result in the force on the cart always being higher than what we calculated, as we only included the mass of the bobs in our calculations. As the string is pulled over the pulley, its mass begins to contribute to the force acting on the cart and ergo the acceleration of the cart. As more string moves over the pulley, more mass contributes, and the force becomes even greater. The errors in the experiment were entirely systematic. The collection of data and the measuring of masses were all done through equipment. If these are not calibrated correctly, it can result in a right or left skew of the data, however this was not explicitly noticed in this experiment. However, it is guaranteed that the mass of the string was the source of some error. As previously stated, as the string is not perfectly massless, it will result in the force on the cart always being high than what was calculated. This increases as the string is pulled over the pulley. This cannot realistically be reduced as it is impossible to have a perfectly massless string. Another systematic error is the slight friction of the air track and pulley that cause an opposing force on the cart. Both the mass of the string and the presence of friction are constraints in the experiment because the string cannot truly be perfectly massless and the system cannot truly be perfectly frictionless.