	The three experiments we conducted testing if angle, length of string, or mass changed the period of the pendulum swing ended up leading to the result that changing the length of the string was the ONLY independent variable that changed the period length of 10 swings.

	The mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, where T is the period, L is the length, and G is gravity. This mathematical model fit well with the independent variable that actually changed, length. Each time with a different length value, the period, or T would change. You can clearly see this with table 2 and 4, which both showed a positive linear relationship between shortening the string and the length of the period decreasing. This also makes sense with our other two variables, mass and angle, that didn’t require us to change the length, because their periods, or T did not change significantly.

	Possible systemic errors that could have occurred is the string length being slightly off due to measuring with a tape measure as accurate as we could see, the pendulum being dropped at an angle that was approximately what the protractor said but not perfectly exact, and the pendulum being dropped higher or lower each time, based off of human error and a hand dropping it versus a consistent machine. An example of a random error would be the stop watch wouldn’t work for a round so we would average two other times similar to make that time. Also, we measured in inches for the first time we measured the length of the string. I don’t believe that’s an “error” but an inconvenience for data analysis. The systemic errors could have been prevented by having the string length pre-cut to be of exact measure, a machine that would drop the pendulum at the exact right angle every time, and a machine to release the pendulum from the same release point for every trial. The random error with the stopwatch could be eliminated by the use of a photogate throughout the trials, which we used in Experiment 3 to prevent error with the length of string data!

	Constraints in this experiment could definitely be the slight errors in data without the photogate, because of human error. That could slightly limit the generalizability because everyone could potentially have slight human error leading to even bigger errors in the data overall. Also, us using inches for our length for the first trial with changing the string length would limit the generalizability because you would have to convert the inches to centimeters to compare our results with other group’s data.