discussion and conclusion 

the research question being investigated in this lab is, what impacts the period of a pendulum. three experiments were conducted to test how the length of the pendulum, the mass of the pendulum, and the angle of release of the pendulum effect the period of the pendulum. these experiments helped address the research question because the data collected from them was able to help conclude what variables impact the period. the data collected from the angle of the release of the pendulum experiment shows that the angle of release isn’t related to the period, for small angles. this conclusion can be made because the error bars overlap based on the equivalency criterion calculated in table 4, meaning the values are practically identical. a similar conclusion can be drawn for the data collected from the mass of the pendulum experiment. when looking at the data and graph for the mass of the pendulum it is evident that the mass of the pendulum isn’t related to the period of the pendulum because the error bars overlap based on the equivalency criterion calculated in table 4 , and all the data points lie along a horizontal line at almost the same exact value. thus, the conclusion that the two variables are not related can be drawn. however, when examining the graphs and data collected from the experiment testing the relation between the length of the pendulum and the period of the pendulum, shows that the length of the pendulum is related to the period of pendulum. this conclusion can be drawn because none of the error bars overlap in the graph based on the equivalency criterion. the theoretical model for the period of the pendulum is time of the period is the power function, $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ where t is the time in seconds, l is the length of the pendulum, and g is the acceleration of gravity. the data found fits this model very well, as the experimental model found is a power function as well and is, $y=0.1944 x^{0.5064}$ and when the experimental lengths are used in each model the difference between the two calculated values have a difference of only about 2%.  regarding the curve of the length of the pendulum vs the time of the period, fits perfectly as an r2 of 1 was calculated. the other factors, weight of the pendulum and the angle of release, do not fit this model. a random error that was present while doing this experiment was not starting/stopping the stopwatch at the exact start/end of the period. this was fixed by using photgate, an automatic motion detecting stopwatch program that eliminated this random error.  a constraint that may limit the generalizability of the results are only a small number of trials were able to be performed during the allotted time. by performing more trials, more accurate results and conclusions can be drawn.