discussion and conclusion 

the purpose of this lab was to answer the research question- how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes? we did this by keeping the total mass of our system- the cart with bobs- constant while varying the hanging mass as a means of generating applied force. the cart was then placed onto an air track and its acceleration measured using data studios. 

we can see from our experimental data and the resulting equation, which is  $y=5.0587 x - 0.0419$ that hanging mass and acceleration of system have a directly positive relationship. as shown by the graph in figure 1, force applied and acceleration fit into a linear model with a regression value of 0.991. however, the errors bars falsely show overlap between all our data points because they were left at the default error bar setting. this was done because some difficulties were encountered while entering the average uncertainty we obtained as the uncertainty limits. if the correct error bars had been entered, the values would not have been overlapping.  these results can be further supported by comparing them with the results obtained by the other two groups in our lab. a summary of their experimental data has been attached below.

the results of the two groups support our claims as we can see from figure 2 and figure 3, that the acceleration of their system increased as they increased the hanging mass. they also derived a linear relationship between hanging mass and acceleration. although our equations are not exactly the same, they are very close in value and essentially describe the same thing. however, the gradient from group 2’s equation is noticeably lower than what we and group 1 obtained. 

the theoretical equation is $f_{net}=m a$ for the acceleration of a system by a single force. the experimental equation we obtained is very similar to the theoretical one apart from the fact that our experimental model included a y-intercept value. when we tested the equations to compare the slopes using our total mass of the system, we calculated the slope to be 5.80, which is close to our experimental value of approximately 5.06. also, the value of the y-intercept it close to zero so, it is probably considered theoretically negligible. therefore, the experimental mathematical model supports the theoretical one. 

the enhanced theoretical model states that $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} -\frac{f_{friction}}{m_{sys}}$. this model considers another force, namely friction, to determine the acceleration of a system. this model fits perfectly with out experimental model where 1/msys is 0.0587 and the fraction of ffriction/msys is 0.0419. 

another factor to take into consideration is the string. for these experiments, the strings attached to our carts were assumed to be massless. however, if the strings were non-massless, our system would no longer accelerate uniformly. this is because as more string falls with the hanging mass, mass will be added continuously so the force applied will also keep increasing. in terms of the theoretical equation, the tension will be different in the part of the string moving vertically and the part moving horizontally. therefore, the acceleration will not be uniform in the x and y directions. 

the possible systematic error that may impact our results is that our scale mat not have been perfectly zeroed, leading to incorrect measurement of mass. this can be reduced by using a more accurate measuring device. some possible random errors may be that the masses of the bobs may have slight differences which could affect our applied forces and there might be possible debris that could affect the ability of the cart to move on the air track smoothly. these errors can be reduced by measuring the mass of every single bob separately and checking and/or cleaning the air track before collecting data. lastly, the amount of air that is produced by the air track could be slightly higher or lower for each trial and this can be checked by measuring how long it takes a cart to move the same distance several times while keeping all other variable controlled. due to time constraints, we were unable to take repeated readings to provide more credibility to our results.