discussion and conclusion

in this lab, the research question investigated was: what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? in order to form experiments exploring this research questions, three variables able to be manipulated had to be chosen. those variables were the length of the string of the pendulum, the mass of the weight at the end of the pendulum, and the angle at which the pendulum was released. 

in the first experiment, outlined in table 1 with data shown in table 4 and figure 1, the length of the string was being changed from 10 cm to 35 cm to 60 cm to 85 cm to 110 cm to 190 cm while keeping the angle of release and mass the same. as shown by figure 1, a longer string results in a longer period, showing that string length does impact period time. in the second experiment, outlined in table 2 with data shown in table 5 and figure 2, the mass of the pendulum was being changed from 20 g to 50 g to 100 g to 200 g to 300 g while keeping the string length and angle of release the same. as shown by figure2, a change in mass does not have a clear impact on the length of the period. all data points are within the 0.1 s uncertainty range from one another, demonstrating that mass does not impact period time. in the third and last experiment, outlined in table 3 with data shown in table 6 and figure 3, the angle of release of the pendulum was being changed from 5 to 10 to 15 to 20 while keeping the string length and mass consistent. as shown by figure 3, the angle of release has almost no affect on the length of the period. all data points are within the 0.1 s uncertainty range from one another, demonstrating that the angle of release does not impact period time. 

thee theoretical mathematical model for pendulums is $t=\frac{2 l}{g}$ where t is the length of the period, g is acceleration due to gravity, and l is the length of the pendulum. the trendline in figure 1 has the equation $t=0.122835 l$ with an r2 value of 0.998. the simplified theoretical model would be $t=1.0035 l$ so the data shown follows the model fairly accurately. the other two variables, mass and angle of release, do not show any trend, which also follows the theoretical model closely. in the model, the only variables present are ones for the period time and the length of the pendulum, which means that no other factors impact the length of the period of a pendulum. 

a systematic error that may have occurred during this experiment would be that the tape measure being used to determine the length of the pendulum was inaccurate. in the future, the accuracy of the tape measure could be tested. a random error that occurred was that the stopwatches were not always being started and stopped at the right time. to minimize the impact of this error, two experimenters were keeping track of time and the average of the two times was recorded. in the future, a device may be used to more accurately determine the length of each period. some other possible errors include not releasing at the same exact angle each time and the weights not being the indicated mass. however, as shown by the theoretical model, mass and angle of release do not affect the period of a pendulum, and thus these errors can be ignored. 

some constraints of this experiment include 
