discussion and conclusion: 



	this experiment was done in order to determine a mathematical model that accurately describes the impact that the applied force (n) due to the hanging mass has on the acceleration of the system (). the mathematical model was then used in the second part of the experiment to determine the required applied force due to the hanging mass that is required for the system to have an acceleration of 0.425 (). 

	in the first part of the experiment, we kept constant the total mass of the system as a whole but varied how much of the mass was hanging off the front of the cart affecting the applied force. this allowed us to determine the impact that the change in hanging mass had on the overall acceleration of the system. by graphing applied force vs. acceleration in figure 1, we were able to calculate a linear line of best fit, this gave us our mathematical model for the relationship between the two. the second part of the lab used the mathematical model to determine the required hanging mass to give a system with a cart weighing 296g an acceleration of 0.425 (). this was done by substituting () for fhanging in the theoretical model and 0.1097 for (). this allowed us to plug in 296 for the mass of the cart and solve for the hanging mass. this value in grams is what was attached (hanging) to the cart and tested in our final trial in the second part of our experiment. we were hoping for a value of 0.425 () but the acceleration we got was .312  5.2 ().

	two groups that we compared results with were the physics phour and the power rangers. their findings aligned with ours in that both found a positive linear relationship between the applied force due to the hanging mass and the acceleration of the system. the physics phour obtained a mathematical model of the relationship that was $y=0.005 x - 0.056$ as shown in figure 2 and the power rangers obtained a model of $y=0.0025 x + 0.317$ as shown in figure 3. when graphed and compared, both of these linear equations are similar to our mathematical model of $y=0.004 x + 0.109$ which falls directly in between the two other equations.

	our experimental mathematical model was $y=0.004 x + 0.109$. the first value, 0.004 represents the slope, this value also considers the mass of the system because it has a relationship with the applied force. the value 0.1097 represents the y-intercept of the linear fit, however this should technically equal zero, because if there is no hanging force applied, the acceleration should be zero. the ‘x’ in the equation is the applied force due to the hanging mass in newtons, and the ‘y’ value represents the acceleration in (). the force due to friction is considered in the calculation of this experimental value as it stays constant throughout the experiment and therefore is understood to be part of the constant values. the theoretical model that explains the relationship between applied force and acceleration is $a = \frac{f}{m}$. where ‘a’ equals acceleration, ‘m’ equals the mass of the system, and the ‘f’ values represent the applied force due to the hanging mass and the forces that we cannot account for that impact the acceleration. these models are created with the assumption that the mass of the string is considered negligible, if it was not, then the acceleration of the system would not be constant and uniform as it would increase as the hanging mass fell due to the string’s weight’s contribution to the applied force. 

	errors that may have occurred during the course of our experiment include the possible systematic error caused by the weighing scale. very light objects such as the bobbers or paperclips used to adjust mass may not be able to be weighed completely accurately due to the scale that was used for all weighing during the experiment. the experimental mathematical model would consider this systematic error, however the theoretical model would not. another error that may have played a role would have been a mistake in the derivation or calculation of the required hanging mass for an acceleration of 0.425 (). in order to reduce this, multiple people would be asked to compute the value and derive the equation to be certain the correct mass is obtained. another error could have existed in the program used to record the acceleration of the system. during our trials for the first part of the experiment, we had to switch computers as the program was not running properly. if an error within the program occurred that was too small to detect, it could have gone unnoticed and the values would have been altered. this could be remedied by completing more tests on multiple systems to determine how much the values had been altered. 

	a constraint to this experiment exists in that the weight of the string was considered negligible in the calculations of our acceleration. if the string had a larger mass, the acceleration would not have been constant, and a new model would need to be calculated. 




