discussion/conclusion:



this lab report discusses the process of coming to a conclusion about whether or not the period of a pendulum is affected by varying factors, and if so then what are those said factors. when the period of the pendulum was measured by testing different masses of the weight, mass ranged from .05 kg- .13 kg. the lowest weight resulted in a period of 1.18 seconds and the greatest weight used resulted in a period of 1.13 seconds. this produced an insignificant dip in the graph with a slope of -.05 and an r^2 value of .29. the mass did not prove to have a significant effect on the period of the pendulum, disproving the initial hypothesis. the prediction was also found inaccurate, as the greatest mass used produced the smallest period. when the period of the pendulum was measured by testing different angles of release, it was found that the greater the angle of release the larger the period. the same went for the varying lengths measured against the period, as it was found that the greater the length of the string used the longer the period of the pendulum. 

possible errors, both systematic and random, were considered for this experiment as mentioned above in the data. probable fixes to such errors could have been having more testers for each measurement, so not just one person’s data was being considered, if each weight was separately weighed before and after, or if the measuring tape used could have had smaller increments to use. it is known that a systematic error would not produce any relationship with the standard deviation because there were precise measurements made however they were not accurate. random error could have been the cause because the data is neither accurate nor precise. 

	when all three variables were graphed against the resulting periods of the pendulum that they produced, relationships were observed. the independent variable of mass showed a lack of a relationship due to no significant fluctuation between such small intervals made. the independent variable of angle created a small, positive correlation creating a direct relationship between it and the period of the pendulum. the independent variable of length showed a positive, direct relationship proving that as the length of the string increased, the period increased. we also found a standard deviation of .089 and this small standard deviation indicates that the spread of the data is closer to the means.  these patterns previously mention held true and the mass vs period error bar was greater than the angle or length vs period error bars as the reasoning was previously mentioned. the equivalence criterion proved that the two ranges of uncertainty for mass and angle overlap, meaning that there isn’t a correlation between the two. the error bars for length did show an overlap, which means the conclusion of a correlation can be made. 

the relationship between the period of the pendulum and the end of the
 independent variable, chosen to be length, is non-linear. this is not the same conclusion made during previous labs. when testing for a trend line, the exponential r-value was .9733, the linear r-value was .9937, and the power r-value was .9998. the power curve best fits the data of the line $y=0.2333 x^{0.47}$ when compared to the equation$t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$  which is 0.20s. this full model has similar enough values to the theoretical math model that there can be concluded a strong relationship. constraints in this experiment were mostly the equipment given and used for each lab. the stop watches were not a good showing of the actual period length because it was based on the accuracy of the button to the timer and the quickness of the person testing. this was obviously fixed when the photo gate was introduced into the experiment. other constraints include using measuring instruments, like the protractor and the measuring tape because the increments they were separated into were not small enough for an experiment that calls for such small, precise data points. the only way to correct this would be to have tools whose intervals were much smaller and therefore would increase the accuracy of the data found.