discussion / conclusion 



	the research question investigated in this lab was what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? the question was whether the period was impacted by angle, mass, or length. through further investigation, it was discovered that the period was only affected by the length of the string. the angle at which the pendulum is swung and the mass of the weight attached to the pendulum prevailed to have no impact from the results of the experimentation. 

	the three experiments of the first lab allowed the previously stated conclusion to be reached because the experiments consisted of the use of each variable that could impact the period – angle, mass, and length. the effects of the angle at which the pendulum was initially swung (figure 1.), the mass of the weight attached to the pendulum (figure 2.), and the length of the string of the pendulum (figure 3.) were all tested. after the first lab, it seemed that there was possibly a slight correlation with all three variables. but angle and mass were ruled out during the second lab, when standard deviation and standard error were calculated after doing ten trials with a constant string length of 49 cm (figure 4.). standard deviation was calculated to be about 0.14, which was then used on the graphs from the first lab and allowed the determination that length had the only impact on period. 

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. based on the data collected, the equation derived for the period of the pendulum was $y=1.1484 x+0.7964$, as depicted in figure 5. figure 5. displays a linear trend line, thus, why the equation derived is in standard $y=m x + b$ form. furthermore, an r2 value of 0.99988 was computed. this is very close to the goal r2 value of 1, thus not much error is present. 

	although not much error is present, it seems that both random and systematic errors did take place at times throughout the experimentation. an example of random error present was operator error – inconsistent holding and releasing of the pendulum. this random error made it difficult to time the period of the pendulum exactly. but this was reduced using a photogate, which is a scientific instrument that allows more precise measurements of the period. an example of systematic error present was improper calibration of the scale used to find the true masses of the weights. this error was known due to the scattered period versus mass graph. because of the improper scale function, rounding to the nearest whole number denomination was done as a result. to reduce this error, careful and proper calibration of the scale can be conducted. another systematic error present was the attachment of the string. because of how the string was attached to the apparatus, the pendulum swung at a sideways angle which could have skewed the results. this error can be reduced through alternate attachment of the string so that it is attached in a way that allows the pendulum to swing straight. 

	a constraint in this experiment that may limit the generalizability of the results is not having a larger pendulum. a pendulum with a wider and longer span capability, thus a longer and larger pendulum, would allow for the gathering of a broader range of data. this would allow for a more precise conclusion to what is being ask in this experimentation. a wider and longer span for the pendulum to swing would have enabled larger intervals to be tried, giving a defined outcome and thus, conclusion. 

	in summation, the biggest impact on the period of the pendulum was seen when string length was varied. when angle and mass were varied, there were small and inconsistent affects seen. thus, it can be concluded from investigation that of the three variables tested in the three weeks, the length of the string had the biggest effect on the period of the pendulum.