discussion and conclusion

	lab 01-03 sought to answer the question “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings”. this research question was investigated by running experiments in which the mass of the pendulum, the angle of release, and the string length were manipulated independently to determine what kind of relationship, if any, there is between each of these variables and the period length of a pendulum. 

it is important to note that in the first three experiments timing was done by hand, so in an attempt to reduce error, each trial’s period length is representative of the average of three times taken by the timer. furthermore, the standard deviation used for the formatting of error bars in these three experiments came from a set of 10 trials in which all the independent variables were held constant (table 9). the fourth experiment was run using a photogate system in order to get more accurate and precise results on the relationship between string length and the period length of a pendulum, so a mathematical model could be determined relating this independent variable to the dependent variable of period length. 

	in the first experiment the mass of the pendulum was manipulated, and the string length and angle of release were held constant (table 1). this experimental design allowed for a determination to be made on whether the mass of the pendulum affected the period length of the pendulum. after the data was collected (table 5) and plotted in excel, it was found that mass does not have an effect on the period length of a pendulum, and therefore the hypothesis was rejected. this claim is supported by the graph of the data (graph 1), in which the error bars almost completely overlap causing the data points all fall within the range of uncertainty. the visual overlap of the error bars indicates that the data points may be equivalent due to the equivalency criterion—if two data points fall within ±2σ, it can be stated with a 95% confidence level that the true values lie in this range and therefore may be equivalent. 

	in the second experiment the angle of release was manipulated, and the string length and the mass of the pendulum were held constant (table 2). this experimental design allowed for a determination to be made on whether the angle of release affected the period length of the pendulum. after the data was collected (table 6) and plotted in excel, it was found that the angle of release does affect the period length of the pendulum, therefore supporting the hypothesis. this conclusion was supported by the graph of the data (graph 2), as the data points did not fit the equivalency criterion indicating that they were in fact different. as the angle of release become larger with each trial, so too did the distance which the pendulum fell causing the increased period length found.

	in the third experiment the string length was manipulated, and the mass of the pendulum and the angle of release were held constant (table 3). this experimental design allowed for a determination to be made on whether the string length affected the period length of the pendulum. after the data was collected (table 7) and plotted in excel, it was found that the string length does affect the period length of the pendulum, therefore supporting the hypothesis. the conclusion was supported by the graph of the data (graph 3), as the data points did not fit the equivalency criterion indicating that they were in fact different. as the string length increases with each trial, so too does the distance which the pendulum fell causing the increased period length found. 

	the fourth experiment was a retesting of the string lengths effect on the period length of the pendulum, but—as stated above—in this experiment a photogate system was used instead of the by hand timing done in the previous three experiments. again, the string length was manipulated, but in greater amounts, and the mass of the pendulum and the angle of release were held constant (table 4). after the data was collected (table 8) and plotted in excel, it was found again that string length does affect the period length of the pendulum in a positive relationship, but upon further inspection it was concluded that the relationship was not linear as hypothesized; instead, a power relationship was supported by fitting a trend line to the plot of the data (graph 4). the graph also showed that the data points were different as they did not fit the equivalency criterion—±0.001 s (the standard deviation given for the error present in the photogate system)—further supporting the conclusion that the string length affects the period length of the pendulum. 

	from the data collected throughout experimentation, the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum—a power model—was able to be supported. this conclusion is made by comparing the equation of the trend line found for experiment four (graph 4 and table 8) to the theoretical equation of a period of a pendulum. the equation of the line for the specific data of this experiment was $y=0.1266885 x$ and the theoretical equation is  $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l{\left(cm \right)}}{g}}$ where “t” is time, “l” is the string length, and “g” is gravity (-9.8 m/s2). when comparing the two equations at a string length of 0.5m or 50 cm, the equation derived from the experimental data gives a period length of 1.57 s and the theoretical equation gives a period length of 1.42 s. while these values are not exactly equivalent—which is due mostly in part to random and systematic error— they are close enough to support the conclusion that the power model does fit with the theoretical model of a pendulum. 

	as stated there was error present in this line of experimentation, which led to the discrepancies discussed above. the random errors found in this experiment were as follows is  inconsistent angles of release between trials, inaccurate string length measurements, and human error in hitting the stop watch. these random errors can be reduced by refining measurement techniques and running multiple trials and averaging the results. for example, by using one person when measuring the angles of release and the string lengths the measurement technique will be more consistent, therefore, causing any error in these measures to be more consistent and more easily represented in the standard deviation later determined. furthermore, by having more than one person time the period of the pendulum and averaging the results, the human error present in the “by hand” timing method as a result of reaction time and view of the pendulum will be lessened, resulting in more accurate results. 

	in addition to the random error, the following systematic errors could have affected the data collected is  inaccuracy of the photogate and the stop watch, incorrect calibration of the scale, an inaccurate protractor, and an inaccurate tape measure. systematic errors are harder to control than random errors, but often are easier to account for as they are either known, like the error of the photogate system, or are consistent so they will affect all data equally. it, however, is still important to take note of this type of error as it can still have a large effect on data and calculations used for results. for instance, since string length affects the period length of a pendulum, if the tape measure used is inaccurate causing the string lengths measured to be shorter or longer than the expected, the data values found may not fit the expected model. in addition, if the timing system used is inaccurate, such as a stop watch which has a time delay or a photogate system which has problems detecting the pendulum, then the time data found will also not be representative of the true values and again may cause the data to be unable to fit the expected model. the best way to reduce systematic error is ensure all necessary equipment is calibrated and in good working order.

	another important factor to consider when analyzing the collected data and its ability to be generalized, is the constraints of the experiment. some constraints for this line of experiment were as follows is  the time available to collect data and the equipment available to set up the experiment. with the constraint on time, a limited number of data points were able to be collected and the experiments were not run more than once to check for accuracy; if more time was available more data points could be collected giving a better view of the relationships between the independent variables and the dependent variable and the experiments could be run multiple times to ensure accuracy of measurements. also, with the equipment present there was room for more error than necessary; given the ability to use more equipment, such as a device to hold the pendulum at a specific angle consistently and then release it, the experimental set up could have been created in a way to eliminate many errors present due to human inaccuracy. 

	 in conclusion the research question of “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings” was answered. it was determined that the length of the string affects the period length of pendulum the most, the angle of release affects it in a smaller amount, and the mass has no effect.