Conclusion: 
	In week one, our lab group began by developing three similar experiments to determine which of three factors, pendulum length, pendulum mass, or release of pendulum angle, would most greatly impact the period of a pendulum. A period being defined by the time it takes a pendulum to complete both a right and left swing. First, we looked at the experimental question and determined what variables would need to change (independent variable) and keep the same in each experiment (control variable). We then made a table in our notes identical to Table 1. 
We would begin by measuring the length of the pendulum and making sure that the weight tiles added up to 70 grams. We then used a plastic protractor to pull the string to the correct angle. Each angle was tested 3 times, and an average of the times was recorded in an attempt to keep the occurrence of random error low. Our results showed that there was no significant difference between the measurements of the period of those three angles, for the error bars overlapped, as seen in the linear equation for the line of best fit in Graph 1, which indicate that there was no difference in the three values. So, we could not conclude that the angle of release of the pendulum had an impact on the period of the pendulum, and thus rejected the hypothesis. However, to more accurately make this claim it would be ideal if more data were to be collected. The linear equation for the graph shows an r2 value of 0.848, which is not as close to 1 as some of the other graph. If more data were to be collected it could be determined if the value for the 45o angle were an outlier or not. But, because we do not have sufficient time to replicate this particular experiment, it will be assumed that the angle of release does not play a role in the length of the period. 
 
 	Our, next experiment tested mass as the independent variable. Our experiment was set up identically to the first experiment, except the dependent and independent variables were changed to test for mass as show below in Table 2. 
The pendulum length was measured at 20 inches and brought to an angle of 45 degrees for each swing; the masses 50g, 70g, and 90g, were tested. But, the differences in the period swings were not found to be significantly different. Again, the error bars to each of the successive points over lap, which indicates that there is no change in the period length as the angle of release changes. Thus, the hypothesis for this experiment has also been rejected. 
				
The last experiment that was ran was to test for the impact of pendulum length on the period of the pendulum. Again, the dependent and control variables were adjusted in order to test for the appropriate dependent variable as shown in Table 3. 
The pendulum angle was measured at 45 degrees and a 50g weight was used. The lengths of 10 inches, 15 inches, and 20 inches, were used to complete the experiment. This was the only experiment of the three that showed a significant difference when using different measurements for the independent variable. You can see in Graph 3 below that the error bars in the plotted data collected form the experiment do not over lap and thus indicate that there is a difference in the values measure for each of the different pendulum lengths.
	The second lab meeting our lab group discussed the different kinds of error, both systematic and random and how they would affect the data and the standard deviation. We noted that systematic error being the continuous repetitive error of a measuring device, it was more difficult to detect because it is going to shift the data instead of skewing it. We also noted that even thought our graphs indicated that there was a significant difference in the period length by changing the length of the pendulum, our data could be more accurate by collecting more data for each experiment to make a better comparison. For example, we could have tested more than three angles, or more than three different masses to make a better comparison. We set up the pendulum again at 15 inches (m), mass of 50g and a release angle of 45 degrees to test the set-up’s standard deviation. For all experiments thus far, a stopwatch has been used to time the pendulum period. Using excel to calculate the standard deviation, it was determined to be 0.07.	In the third lab session we again tested how the length of the string impacted the period of the pendulum. But, this time, in order to reduce the amount of potential error that was occurring, a photogate was used to determine the length of the pendulum period, an average of ten periods was used to account for the measurement of one period at a given length of 2, 10, 15, and 20 inches. The two control variables for this experiment angle of release and the mass of the pendulum were 45 degrees and 50 grams respectively as seen in Table 4 below.

 The graph shows that the error bars are so small that they cannot even be seen on the graph. There is no overlap between the error bars of any point on Graph 4 which indicates that all the points are significantly different from each other, and there is a significant difference in the period of the pendulum when the length of the pendulum is changed. 
						
	When looking at the r2 value of 0.97682 for the linear equation in Graph 4 of the pendulum period length, we could see that it was fairly close to 1, which indicates that the linear equation fits the graph pretty well. But, we also used Excel to determine what logarithmic equation would best fit the line and determine that the logarithmic equation’s r2 value was 0.99783, which is even closer to 1, shown in Graph 5. So, it could be concluded that the logarithmic equation of $y=0.6088 x$ + 0.7172 is actually more accurate than the linear equation for the data set. This means that the logarithmic equation could be used to approximate the value of a length that had not been tested in the experiment explicitly. For example, we used the equation to determine what the length of the pendulum would have to be in order for the period of the pendulum to be five seconds, and we found the answer to be 1135.4 inches. 
