discussion and conclusion

	throughout the experimental process of this lab, the relationship between the acceleration and the applied force was investigated. to investigate how an applied force affected the acceleration of the system, the applied force was used as the independent variable and making the acceleration the dependent variable and the mass of the system a control variable.  the results and data from the experiment revealed a linear relationship between the acceleration and the applied force, supporting the original prediction. the best fit line of the graph revealed a mathematical model of . horizontal and vertical error bars added to the graph which further concluded the linear relationship between force and acceleration.  other groups collected data on the relationship between acceleration and applied force as well.  all three groups, odo, rom, and nerys, concluded that there is a linear relationship between acceleration and applied force, coming up with linear mathematical models as well which were and   respectively (odo group; rom group; nerys group). the three groups concluded that the slope of their respective mathematical model should be the inverse of the mass but is not an exact match due to systematic and random errors in the experimental process. the results of all three groups support the data collected in table 1. as well as figure 1. and therefore, supports the claim of a linear relationship between the independent and dependent variables.  groups odo, rom, and nerys, conducted a similar experimental trial to this experiment but the groups did not match this experimental design exactly.  each group had their own air track, pulley, sled and bobbers to collect data.  these variables varied from group to group and changed the mathematical models and thus explains why the mathematical models are not exact replicas of the mathematical model derived from the data in this lab. these groups also assumed that all of the bobbers in their system had the same mass, an assumption that was not made throughout this experimental design. this would have impacted the slope and y-intercept of all three mathematical models, but even with this assumption the mathematical models mimic a slope between 4.7 and 5.2 with a small y-intercept.

the mathematical model derived from the data collected in this experiment is   in this equation the y is representative of the acceleration of the system and the x is equivalent to the net force applied to the system. the mathematical model found from the best fit line of the data in table 1. is a rearranged version of newton’s second law of motion which states that  (serway, 2019). newton’s second law equation of   was manipulated algebraically so acceleration was the dependent variable making the equation   (serway, 2019). based on newton’s second law and his equation to represent the relationships between mass, acceleration, and force, the slope of the mathematical model calculated from the data collected should be the inverse of the mass of the system. the mass of the system for the experiment was 183.46 grams so the inverse of this in kilograms is equal to 5.4501. the mathematical model’s slope of 4.8268 is about an 11% error from 5.4501.  the other three mathematical models presented from groups odo, rom, and nerys, also have slopes that are within at least 11% range from the actual slope value, which also supports the data and claim of this experiment. the mathematical models also have a y-intercepts which do not appear in newton’s theoretical model. the y-intercept shifts the graph and is evidence of error within the experimental trials. 

the y-intercept is a combination of factors that affected the system that were not accounted for in theoretical equation model. these factors include friction in the pulley, mass in the pulley, friction on the air track and air resistance.  all of these factors could have acted on the system but were not taken into consideration within the mathematical model or the net force applied to the system, therefore the values show up in the equation through the slope and the y-intercept. all of these factors shift the graph in a specific direction which makes them systematic errors as they tend to skew data in one direction. since the mass of the pulley was not taken into consideration it affected the mathematical model, however this would not have changed the uniform acceleration of the cart.  the same pulley was used for each trial, therefore, in each trial there is an equal amount of mass missing from the applied force which only affects the mathematical model’s slope and y-intercept, not the uniform acceleration of the cart. the uncertainty in the measurement of the mass of each bobber may have also influenced the mathematical model. there were discrepancies in the mass of all of the bobbers when each one was weighed individually versus when they were weighed all at once.  the mass differed by about 3 grams which would impact the mathematical model.  there are resolution errors with using a balance as a measurement of mass, and because of this each mass had an uncertainty of 0.05 grams and ultimately resulting in random error which could attribute to the discrepancy. the balance may have also had an imprecise equilibrium set.   this would result in systematic error in all the mass measurements if the equilibrium was set too high or too low.  this error can be minimized in the future by using an electronic balance or taking the mass of each bobber multiple times and averaging the values.  the data studio program also has some error which are displayed in table 1. these errors are minimal, but there have been problems with the data studio calibration in prior experiments which also could have affected the data of this experiment. the errors displayed by the system are random, but if there were a calibration error there would also be systematic error. the equipment needs to be properly calibrated to give accurate and precise results.  the errors from other unconsidered forces are harder to minimize because they are due to the environment and surfaces used in the experiment.  the experiment would have to be conducted on a frictionless surface with negligible air resistance to minimize the affect on the mathematical model and results.

all three of the other groups also experienced errors with each of their models having a y-intercept and slope discrepancies from the inverse of mass.  the groups attributed these discrepancies to other forces acting on the system, slant of the air track, and inaccurate mass of the bobbers (odo group; rom group; nerys group).  these errors are very similar to the errors that were considered for this experimental process, further validating the results of this experiment. with this in mind, there are still constraints on this experimental process that should be considered.  the applied force only had a range of 0.236715 newtons, which is very small and hard to get an accurate and precise mathematical model from the collected data. the conditions for the experiment were not perfect because there was not a frictionless surface and there was air resistance both of which affect the accuracy and precision of the mathematical model. the error in the mathematical model and the constraints on this experimental process do not accurately represent acceleration for larger values.  the mathematical model derived from the experiment can give estimates of the acceleration of the system but may not give an exact value.  for smaller values of applied force, the mathematical model will give values with very small percent error between the actual and theoretical values of acceleration. adding small force values to the constraints of this experiment, the mathematical model can be an accurate model of the newton’s law.  with all of these constraints the experiment can be considered a success, but in general the mathematical model will not accurately represent all values of acceleration for systems with a mass of 183.46 grams. 



