discussion and conclusion

for labs 01-03, the research question was as follows: what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?
conducting the first experiment aided in determining which factors affected the period of the pendulum . this was done by collecting the data and graphing those results, and analyzing any apparent trends. the second experiment served beneficial in determining the level of uncertainty in our measurements, and any errors that were a cause of these fluctuations. figures 1, 2, 3, and 4 depict the range of uncertainty as indicated by the error bars. 
for the experiment with data given in table 1, the angle of release and length were kept constant, while the mass was varied. the representation of this data is shown in figure 1. the error bars in figure 1 overlap, suggesting that the mass of the pendulum has no affect on the period of the pendulum. 
for the experiment with data given in table 2, the mass and length of the pendulum were kept constant, while the angle of release was varied. the representation of this data is shown in figure 2. the error bars in figure 2 overlap, suggesting that the angle of release has no affect on the period of the pendulum. 
for the experiment with data given in table 3, the angle of release and mass of the pendulum were kept constant, while the length of the pendulum was varied. the representation of this data is given in figure 3. the error bars in figure 3 do not overlap, suggesting that the length of the pendulum does impact the period. 
performing the third experiment helped to solidify our claim that the length impacted the period of the pendulum, as we were able to collect more precise data using the photogate and compare our mathematical model to that of the theoretical model. table 5 displays the data from this experiment, and the representation of this data is shown in figure 4. 
the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ , and after simplifying this model and substituting 9.8 for g, we found the theoretical model to be $t=2.007 l^{0.5}$ . we then used the graph shown in figure 4 to apply a curve fit to determine the best trend for the data. during the first experiment, it was assumed that the relationship between the length and period of the pendulum was a direct (linear) relationship; however, applying the curve fit demonstrated that the power function was the best fit for the data. the power function had closest  value to one, with a value of rsquared is .9996. using the equation derived from figure 4, we expressed out mathematical model in a form similar to that of the theoretical model, giving the equation $t=1.904 l^{0.5081}$ . the proximity of the two models suggest that the derived mathematical model fits with the theoretical model.
the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum does not include variables for mass and angle of release, thereby indicating that the mass and angle of release do not affect the period of the pendulum. the theoretical model includes the variable l for the length of the pendulum, thereby indicating that the length of the pendulum does impact the period. 
in regards to the errors present during each lab, random errors were present in measuring the length and mass of the pendulum. when measurements were taken of the length, only one measurement was taken at the beginning. in order to reduce this human error, three measurements of each selected length were taken and then averaged. random error was also present in determining the mass of the pendulum, as each individual mass was not weighed during lab 01. during lab 03, each individual mass was weighed, and the total mass was calculated by the sum of these measurements, thereby helping minimize the random error in these measurements. systematic errors in our experiments arise as the angle of release and period were measured by the same individual in lab 01. in order to minimize this error, measurements for each condition were collected by several group members, and these values were then averaged. other systematic errors include the triple beam balance not being properly calibrated, inconsistency in tape measure readings due to them being stretched out, and the reaction time of the stopwatch falling ahead or behind the time of one complete oscillation.  such errors can be reduced in the future by using a digital balance to collect a more precise value for the mass, using multiple tape measures to verify the length, and using a photogate to more precisely measure the period. 
lastly, our results were constrained in the ranges in which we could measure the length and mass of the pendulum. in the case of the length of the pendulum, the maximum length we could measure was 140 cm. while it is claimed that the length does impact the period, our results only show this relationship for lengths up to 140 cm. in the case of the mass of the pendulum, we were constrained to the number of masses provided, which fell in a range of 50.5 – 210.5 grams. even though the theoretical model helps to claim that the mass does not affect the period, we were only able to determine this relationship for a small range of masses.