Discussion and Conclusion
The presence of the uncertainty value is a way of accounting for possible systematic and random error of the experiment. Although the cart was placed on an AirTrack system- which is used to provide a frictionless surface for the cart to travel on- there was still a possibility that friction was acting on the cart.  Also, air resistance might have played a part in the system causing the cart to be slowed down. Due to the size of the experiment and the setup, these two systematic errors were considered to be negligible- taking no responsibility for the acceleration determinations. Another systematic error that might have had critically affected the results was the use of the scale to weigh the cart and bobbers. Although the scale was calibrated prior to using it, internal issues would cause masses to be slightly off from the true value. The systematic error from the scale would not have affected the obtainment of the mathematical model as long as the error was the same amount each time. The large r2 value, 0.09957 showed a very strong correlation between the two variables with little error (Graph 1).
	Data from two other lab groups were obtained and compared to the original results to observe differences and similarities in data and mathematical models. The data from the first group can be seen in Figure 2 and showed a mathematical model of 
$a=5.1366 F - 0.0022$ 
The second collection of data (Figure 3) showed mathematical model of 
$y=6.2851 x - 0.73$
The second mathematical model has different variables but still resulted with the acceleration of the system when the applied force was plugged in for the x-value. Both equations were quite different from the original equation and that was due to the units used. The original mathematical model was critically flawed because the units of mass were in grams instead, meaning that the forces calculated were in grams*meter per square second. This important error was not considered at first but could be remedied by converting the masses of each trial to kilograms- resulting in actual Newtons. These values could then be plotted in place of the original force values and a new mathematical model would be obtained using the same procedure. Another way to fix the issue is to ensure that the applied force being used is converted from Newtons using kilograms to instead using grams of the force. This would still give the same result as if using the converted model and using Newtons. Although the mathematical model was quite wrong, the experiment proved that a mathematical model could be obtained using the specified procedure. The theoretical model of $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$ is not supported by the experimental model, $a=0.005 f-0.017$ in this case because of the error in unit procedure. 
The original research question was “how does the acceleration of a system change as the applied force changes,” and this was explored and answered. The acceleration increased as the applied force increased, a positive linear relationship as predicted. 