discussion and conclusion

there were three main research questions that were asked in this experiment is  1. how does string length affect the period of a pendulum? 2. how does the drop angle affect the period of a pendulum? and 3. how does the mass of a pendulum affect its period? all three of these research questions are all part of the overall research question, which is is  what affects the period of a pendulum?

	for the first portion of the experiment, the string length (iv) was altered while mass and drop angle (cvs) were kept constant. data was recorded as such that is shown in table 1. once the data was collected, the data was then compiled into a scatterplot. once the data was inputted, it was easily seen that there was a definite correlation between string length and period. the use of error bars was even negligible because the error was so small that the error bars were not visible. this portion of the experiment was a great success and agreed with the prediction that was stated in the experimental design. there is a positive correlation between string length and the period of a pendulum.

	as for the second portion of the experiment, the drop angle (iv) was altered while mass and string length (cvs) were kept constant. data was then recorded and then represented as shown in table 2. after that, the data ran through excel to create a bar graph (graph 2). the error bars are not shown in this report but when originally created, the error bars not only overlapped, but were large compared to the recorded data. to answer the research question, it can be said that the drop angle does not in fact affect the period of a pendulum. there was no correlation found between the two as shown in graph 2. 

lastly, the mass (iv) was compared to the period of the pendulum. the string length and drop angle (cvs) were kept as constants through this portion of the experiment. that data was then recorded as shown in table 3. after that, the data was ran through excel to create graph 3. even though there are no error bars shown in the report, there were originally error bars present that were large and overlapped one another. also, the data seemed to overlap itself in portions of the data. this points towards to the conclusion the mass of the pendulum does not affect the period of the pendulum, therefore failing to accept the hypothesis for this part of the experiment. 

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is shown below.



	based off this model, the only numerical value that is used to find the period of the pendulum is used as l. the l variable is what is represented by the length of the period. if this changes at all, this is what will affect the period of the pendulum. the curve best fitting to this model is that shown in graph 1. the line of best fit used on that graph is that equal to this model when the other variables are inputted into the equation. the line matches up almost perfectly with the data that is displayed. 

	there are a few areas where there was error. the main cause of error was due to random error. the places where random error occurred was 1. the drop angle was not always 100% spot on; 2. not catching the pendulum in the same spot each time; and 3. the person pressing the start-stop button on the stopwatch could have been off when counting the time for the period. these errors can lead to a random error all over data, whereas systematic errors would cause an overall shift in the data. the only possibility for a systematic error occurs in this experiment is if any of the equipment was not calibrated correctly. the source of error was most likely prominent due to random error throughout the experiment.