discussion and conclusion
the theoretical equation for the period of the pendulum is [$t=2 \pi$ sqrt l/g] when the photogate was used to add an extra layer of precision to the experiment, the equation was calculated in excel when we determined the average period of the pendulum affected by the length in string. $y=0.306x^{0.4173}$ we chose length of string because it was determined to be the variable that produced the most prominent change in period length. this supports the theoretical equation because the theoretical equation essentially says, as the length increases, the period will as well. and when you plug in any given length(x), into the y(period) of the equation generated in excel, it will increase proportionally to the length increase.

in lab 001 and 002, a random error could have been due to the person reading the stop watch. even the subtlest distraction could have caused them read the time or analyze a full period of the pendulum period too early or too late which could, even if just slightly, effected the results. systematic errors in 001 and 002 could have been the stop watch might have been too stop or fast, or not have enough precision to accurately portray the proper results. however the result would have still been quite precise. in lab 003, random and systematic error were reduced to a minimum because the precision was calibrated to a high accuracy. constraints of the experiments were that the devices in use could only be observed to a certain amount of precision that would have affected accuracy but not precision. the research question was whether length, angle of release, and or mass have an effect on the period of the pendulum in motion. the length of the string was determined to have an effect on the period


as the independent variable (length of string) increased, the dependent variable (time) decreased. the range of uncertainty is the range of possible values within where the true values lie. the range of uncertainty for length of string is listed above. the research question regarding length of string was whether it affect the period of the pendulum. the claim that can be made is that according to the data calculated above as well as the range of uncertainty, is that the length of the string does in fact affect the period of the pendulum. as the length of string increases, the period as well does increase. the error bars are a graphical representation of the variability of data used and often indicated the error of uncertainty. statistical significance means that the results obtained are most likely not by chance. the fact that most of the error bars overlap means that the difference likely is statically different, meaning the results were not due to chance.
as the independent variable(mass) increased, the dependent variable (time) decrease. the range of uncertainty is the range of possible values within where the true values lie. the range of uncertainty for the mass is listed above. the research question regarding mass was whether the mass of the object pulling the string has an effect of the period. the claim that can be made according to the data calculated above as well as the range of uncertainty, the mass of the object pulling the string does not have an effect of the period of the pendulum. the error bars are a graphical representation of the variability of data used and often indicated the error of uncertainty. mass of the object had two of the three error bars overlapping which is a clue that the difference is probably not statistically different. 
as the independent variable (angle of release) increased, the dependent variable (time) stayed the same. the range of uncertainty is the range of possible values within where the true values lie. the range of uncertainty for the angle of release is listed above. the research question regarding angle of release was whether angle of release affected pendulum period. the claim that can be made according to the data calculated above as well as the range of uncertainty, the angle of release does not have an effect of the period of the pendulum. the error bars are a graphical representation of the variability of data used and often indicated the error of uncertainty. angle of release also had two of the three error bars overlapping which is a clue that the difference is probably not statistically different.