discussion and conclusion:

the goal of the experiment is to find what, if any, factors have an effect on the period of the pendulum’s swing. the factors tested include the mass of the pendulum, the length of the string, and the angle at which the pendulum is released. to test each of these factors independently from one another, only one of the variables was altered at a time (i.e. if the mass was being tested, the length and angle remained constant from trial to trial). looking at figure 1, there is no overlap between the error bars. the relationship between the two appears to be that as the length increases so does the period of the swing. when the uncertainty of 0.049011s is doubled, the bars still do not overlap. the uncertainty here was found using the standard deviation of the trials using a sensor to measure the period. this provided more accurate data to use so that the uncertainty could be more accurate. looking at figure 2, there is also no overlap with error of 0.049011s, but when the uncertainty is doubled, there is some overlap, indicating no relationship between the angle of release and the period. with figure 3, there is significant overlap between the error bars of 0.049011s, indicating no relationship which means whether mass increases or decreases, the period is unaffected. these results align with the theoretical model being $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ where t is the pendulum period (s), l is the length of string (m), and g is acceleration due to gravity (m/s2). based on this equation, length is the only variable that affects the period. this is also why the power curve fits best to the data as in the model, because the best fit curve is a coefficient times x to the power of around 0.5. in this experiment, random errors existed including human reaction time, a varying point of view when measuring the angle, and different tensions on the string before releasing. these would result in measurements higher or lower than the actual value. some systematic errors existed in the measuring tape as the metal tip would cause a slightly shorter recording. in order to correct these in the future, a sensor could be used to record the period time, a static viewpoint could be used to prevent variation in the angle of release, and a pin could be used to prevent any tension on the string. to fix the systematic error, the tape should be bent and the measuring start at 1.0cm. the final measurement then needs to have 1.0cm subtracted from it to find the true length. constraints in this lab include the time limit we had that prevented us from performing more trials as well as the specificity of the tools we could use that may have prevented us from taking more accurate and precise measurements.