discussion and conclusions

	the question this experiment sought to answer was which variables impact the period of a pendulum. research began august 29, 2018 and was completed september 12, 2018 in phys 1051l-008. we studied the effects of three independent variables is  angle of release, mass, and length of string. control variables were determined by the variable tested; for example, when investigating the effects of various masses, the string’s angle of release and length were kept consistent. the period of the pendulum (i.e., the amount of time it took the bob to swing forwards and backwards to its starting position) was the dependent variable and recorded with a stopwatch. uncertainties of the measuring technique were estimated by taking 10 additional period measurements from lab 01 and entering the data into excel to compute for standard deviation.

	five different angle measurements were used in the investigation of angle of release versus time (see table 1.1). when graphed, data did not show a clear relationship between the angle of release and period of the pendulum (see figure 1). the equivalency criterion was calculated to be +/-0.059861, meaning the standard error bars reached 0.059861 units both above and below the experimental data collected at each point in the graph; the value was consistent for all investigations. addition of the error bars did not affect the lack of relationship between the two variables. therefore, the hypothesis of the angle of release affecting the period of the pendulum was rejected (see table 1), and the conclusion was the angle of release did not influence the period of a pendulum.

	investigation of mass versus time consisted of five different trials (see table 2.1). analysis of data in a graph (see figure 2) failed to show a visible relationship between the mass of the bob and the period of the pendulum. when added to the graph, the error bars did not affect the lack of relationship between mass and time. these results lead to the conclusion mass did not influence the period of pendulum and rejection the hypothesis of the mass affecting the period of the pendulum (see table 2).

	like the above investigations, five trials were conducted in the investigation of the relationship between string length and the period of a pendulum (see table 3.1). in graphing the results, a visible, positive, linear relationship existed between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum (see figure 3). addition of the error bars did not affect the relationship between the two variables. this visible linear relationship allowed for the acceptance of the hypothesis of the length of the string affecting the period of a pendulum (see table 3), and lead to the conclusion as the length of string increased, the period of the pendulum increase.

	the determination of a relationship between string length and period of a pendulum prompted further investigation (see table 4, table 4.1, and figure 4) and development of a mathematical model. for this study, the period was recorded using a photogate instead of a stopwatch. the scale error for the photogate is 0.001, but the value was deemed unreasonable for a value of uncertainty for this investigation. accordingly, the value was adjusted and the uncertainty criterion (+/- 0.059861) remained consistent with that of the other three studies. the graphed data (see figure 4) differed from the previous study because it showed a non-liner, positive relationship with a best fit line represented by the equation $y=0.11353252 x$ a power function. given the equation of the best fit line, the experimental mathematical model is $y=c1x^{c2}$, where c1 and c2 are both constants and x is equal to the length of the string. the theoretical mathematical model is   (russel) and reinforced the acceptance of the hypothesis that string length will affect the period of a pendulum (see table 4). 

	possible random errors, which may have occurred during the study, included a slow reaction time to starting/stopping the stopwatch and incorrect reading of measurements of the protractor or measuring tape. in some trials, upon release of the bob, the pendulum took a curved path instead of a straight path which would increase the period. we tried to reduce the amount of random error by having the same person read each measurement, as well as having the same person start and stop the stopwatch - using a photogate in the later; however, the path of the pendulum was difficult to control without further interfering with the results. any systematic error could be due to an unlevel table for the base of the pendulum swing or inaccurate measurement markings by the manufacturer on the protractor or measuring tape. in future studies, the table should be leveled prior to experimentation. inaccurate measurements from the manufacturing company are difficult to account for, but supplies may be purchased from reputable companies. a major constraint of this experiment was time; given the allotted time frame, we were limited in the amount of trials we could perform. therefore, limitations existed regarding the amount of data collected.



