discussion and conclusion 

the question we were investigating in this lab is what affects the time it takes for a pendulum to complete a period for small swings. 

the first experiment helped us address this research question, because we collected data for each variable (length, mass and angle of release) at different times and explored the experimental design for each variable. when testing each variable, we made sure to keep the other two variables constant (making them the control variables), while the independent variable was manipulated five times to give us five different times, in seconds, that it took for the pendulum to complete a period (also known as the dependent variable). we also used lab 1 to discuss testable hypotheses and predictions for the outcome of each independent variable. lab 1 allowed us to make claims as to whether the variables truly affected the time of the period and allowed us to create error bars and find uncertainty values for each graph in excel. for example, after labs 1 and 2, we were able to conclude that the length of the string on the pendulum was the only variable to affect the time of the period, because the error bars (found in lab 2) did not overlap each other on the graph of length vs. time. also, we could see a correlation in the graph of the line, that as the length of the string got longer, the time it took to complete a period also got longer; at $l=40m$, it took 1.72 seconds for the pendulum to complete a period, whereas at $l=120m$, the time increased significantly to 2.51 seconds. the graphs of angle vs. time and weight vs. time showed no effect on the time of the period, because no straight line could be drawn through the error bars and they overlapped each other, showing no correlation between the dependent and independent variable(s). for example, when the mass was 50 grams and 90 grams, the time it took to complete a period was 1.06 seconds and 1.11 seconds, respectively. even though we increased the mass a significant amount, the time didn’t change by a large amount.

in lab 2, we also investigated standard deviation by running 10 more trials, while keeping all variables constant (angle of release at 20 degrees the mass of the object hanging at 50 grams and the length of the string at 37.0cm). after 10 trials, we entered the collected data into excel to compute a standard deviation that showed the uncertainty of the measuring technique used in lab 1, .099.  this value was put into excel and was the value that determined how large/small the error bars were. in lab 3, we looked further into the mathematical model and the mathematical dependence. we used a photogate device, which was used to reduce the amount of uncertainty in our data and error bars, when measuring the affect of length of the string on period of the pendulum. after manipulating the length 9 times, we computed a graph on excel, and saw that the mathematical dependence in non-linear, and that the uncertainty was .001, so small that the error bars were not even visible on the graph (shown in part c). the best fit was a    $y=x^{2}$    curve, however the equation was actuall$y=0.3538 x^{0.3879}$.

the theoretical model for the period of the pendulum is       $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$        . our data and experimental model, $y=0.3538 x^{0.38}$ did not fit with this theoretical model very well, because if we plug in a value for “x” number of meters, the models will give us slightly different answers for y (or “t” number of seconds). the other variables tested also do not fit the theoretical model, because when data was collected the length was kept as a control variable so none of the variables fit the model. also, looking at the graph of our experimental model, the curve resembles an exponential curve, but doesn’t look identical to it (see below). the exponent should theoretically be 2, however ours was .3879.



some systematic errors that may have occurred during this experiment were due to our measuring devices; for example, the balance being slightly off due to not zeroing/calibrating it properly before a measurement was taken caused errors both above and below the mean. another example would be if the tape measure used to measure the length of the string was slightly stretched out after years of use, and therefore providing us with an incorrect measurement. these systematic errors can be reduced by paying more closely attention to the measuring devices used, and to ensure the numbers being read make sense and are consistent to what they should be. using new measuring devices could also be a good idea when trying to get accurate data, especially when we are aware that the devices are worn out. some random errors that may have occurred would be due to mistakes made by the people conducting the experiment, such as not starting and stopping the stopwatch at exactly the right time, reading the protractor incorrectly/ to the wrong number of significant figures, or not giving enough tension to the string before letting go. these random errors can be reduced by simply performing more trials and collecting more data values to refine the measurement method or technique. having more trials will always provide more data to calculate the average from. 

a constraint in this experiment is that we were limited to how long we can make the string to test its effect on the time of the period, because the apparatus used to hold the string only goes to a certain height and/or the ground would be in the way if the length of the string got too long. another constraint is that there was a minimum mass we could use to hang on the end of the string; the minimum mass of the object was 50 grams, so we would be unable to test the affect of anything lighter. these constraints will limit our ability to generalize the results, because not every variable was able to be tested to its full potential. another constraint is the fact that we had to start and stop the timer ourselves, which leads to error and inconsistency in the times we collected for each variable. having errors in the time it takes for the pendulum to complete a period, would essentially impact our mean value, and therefore give us an incorrect conclusion on whether a variable affected the time of the period.