conclusion:
the purpose of this experiment was to determine which factors (length of string, mass of object, and angle of release) can impact the period of a pendulum for a small swing. tables 1-4 show the data for the experiments for testing the length of string, mass of object, angle of release, and length of string with photogate respectively, and how they are related with period. figure 1 (the graph representing length of string vs period) shows the only relatable iv to period because there is a linear relationship between the two variables. with tables 2-3 there could be an interpretation that the mass of object and angle of release could relate to the period, however, figures 2-3 show the margin of error between the iv and period; it was determined that the mass of the object and angle of release do not affect the period of a pendulum with small swings (with this data). figure 4 confirms that the length of the string affects the period of pendulum because the experiment used the photogate to take accurate period measurements. it was determined that there is a power function relationship between the length of string and the period of a pendulum with small swings. the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is is  $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ it is important to note that the data collected in this experiment was done in cm, not m, like in the theoretical model. it was determined that the experimental model for the period of the pendulum for this data set is $p=0.3515 x^{0.3737}$. this data is somewhat close to the theoretical model, however, there are a few slight differences between the two models. for example, the power for the experimental model is 0.3737 and the power for the theoretical model is 0.5, so there is a difference that should be explored but not terribly significant. the constant for the experimental model is 0.3515 and the constant for the theoretical model is 0.6347. the constant found in the experiment is approximately half of the theoretical constant, which proves that this data should be explored further. in addition, the theoretical model does not include mass nor angle of release, thus the data collected in this experiment proves that the mass of object and the angle of release do not affect the period of the pendulum; the experimental model is correct in that regard. uncertainties and where errors came from are discussed in the previous section. random errors in this experiment can be reduced by making sure all equipment is used properly, while making sure all sampling devices are used carefully (taking the time to measure, etc.). systematic errors in this experiment can be reduced by is  having equipment maintained and in working order, using multiple time taking devices and taking the average would help reduce error, and by subtracting known systematic errors from the data sets. a constraint in this experiment was that the experimental models are only true for the ranges that were tested. with greater ranges of testing, it may help reduce the generalizability of the results. taking more data points (a lot more than in this experiment) would give a more concise model and properly reflect the true theoretical model.