discussion and conclusion



the purpose of this lab was to discover how the acceleration of a system is related to the force applied. the hypothesis surrounding this experiment was that the hanging mass of fishing bobbers directly affect the acceleration of the cart. it was predicted that if the hanging force (n) increased, then the acceleration (m/s^2) would increase along with it. the results from this experiment show that the force applied has a positive linear relationship on the acceleration of the system. for the data collected by my group, the trendline to the data points gives the equation $y=5.4475 x + 0.031$ and an r^2 value of .997, which indicates that the line for data is a good representation. this equation and statement can be proven true by analyzing the data collected from the other groups. group 3, figure 2, had an equation $y=9.47 x - 0.5$ and group 6, figure 2, had an equation of $y=4.841 x - 0.0077$. the results in the data table and figure 1 support the prediction that if the hanging force (n) increased, then so would the acceleration (m/s^2) would also increase. group 3 had relatively similar data and equations in comparison to the ones collected by our group. the slope for group 3’s graph was slightly larger than the collected data, not only was the slope slightly large but so was the y-intercept. this could be due to error or the use of different measurements than our group. additionally, they had the same prediction and hypothesis as us and their graph also proved the data supports the prediction/hypothesis. as for group 6’s data was very similar to the collected data. the slope is between four and five, and the y-intercept is slightly less than zero. the slope of the equation represents the force applied while also including the mass, while the y-intercept factors in the mass of the pulley, the mass of the string, and effect of friction. there was random error present upon releasing the cart. in some cases, we held the car while the vacuum was going and others we had just started the vacuum and let the cart go. this could be reduced by maintaining the same release method with the same measurements. it’s important to recognize random error because it can have an impact on the accuracy of the acceleration that datastudio collected which can influence the slope that excel calculated. no systematic errors were identified in this experiment. it was assumed in this experiment the pulley and the string had no mass throughout the experiment. the system will not have a constant acceleration if the mass of both the pulley and the string had a significant amount of mass because the force applied will continue to increase as the hanging mass increases its distance from the starting point. another considered assumption that was made was the track being level on the table. if it was not assumed, then additional acceleration would be present because of gravity and it would probably not include the coefficient of friction. a few of the limitations of this lab included the mass of the system and string length. this experiment is not able to support the hypothesis for a large mass of the system and a large mass of the string, as well as friction. also, it’s not possible to eliminate friction completely from this experiment. even though the friction coefficient cannot be completely taken out, it can be made incredibly small. if friction was eliminated completely, then the graph of the data would show a linear relationship and the y-intercept would be at 0. in conclusion, the initial hypothesis for this experiment was supported by the data collected and the data collected by other students.