discussion/conclusion:



	the original research question in lab 05 reads: “how does changing the applied force on a system change the acceleration?”. the prediction was that increasing the applied force on a system would also increase the acceleration. this research question is based on newton’s 2nd law that says the force on an object is equal to its mass times its acceleration, or $f=m a$. to investigate the effects of applied force on acceleration, the mass of the system must be kept constant. this was done by using fishing bobs to change the amount of mass distributed between the cart and the end of the string. since the “system” is defined as the sum of the cart, string, and bobs, the mass of the “system” will stay the same if the same number of bobs are connected to either the string or the cart. by changing the number of bobs at the end of the string, the applied force on the cart is being changed due to gravity acting on a different mass. for example, taking more bobs off the cart and putting them onto the end of the string would increase the mass that gravity can act upon. according to the data received in lab 05, the experimental model of the graph representing acceleration v. applied force is $y=0.0053 x - 0.0717$. this model is comparable to the theoretical model in that the value for 1/msystem is 0.00537, which corresponds to the slope of the acceleration v. applied force graph. the error bars on this graph go in both directions because there was uncertainty in both measurements. for the acceleration, the uncertainty was generated by the datastudio program for each velocity v. time graph. for the applied force, the scale used to measure mass had an uncertainty of + or – 0.05. although the error bars seem relatively large, there is still a noticeable positive correlation between acceleration and applied force. this observation supports the original prediction that increasing the applied force on a system would also increase the acceleration. 

	at the beginning of lab 06, data from every group in section 013 was exchanged and compared. the experimental models exchanged were as follows is  $y = 5.3 x - 0.0717$; $y = 4.9362 x - 0.0102$; and $y = 5.40 x – 0.0313$. the c1 values were almost the same for each group. our value was 5.30, and the other groups were 4.9362 and 5.40. the c2 values for the other groups were smaller than ours (-0.0717 vs. -0.0102 and -0.0313). this also means that our sum of external forces was higher (0.0135 v 0.0058 and 0.00206). these numbers are most likely different than ours because we had more sources of error. regardless of error, however, both groups’ findings do support our original hypothesis that changing the mass at the end of the cart will affect the velocity v. time graph because they all show a positive correlation between applied force and acceleration. 

	 the experimental model for lab 05 was $y = 5.3 x - 0.0717$. in a perfect scenario where there are no outside forces acting on the system, the theoretical model should be equal to just 1/msystem, or $y = 5.37 x$. however, the experimental model does not accurately represent this version of the theoretical model because external forces are not accounted for. these forces might include friction and air resistance as well as errors in the procedure of the experiment that would have opposed the motion of the cart. the theoretical representation of these forces is equal to fexternal/msystem, or -0.0725. in the experimental model, this number is -0.0717. this experimental model best represents the enhanced theoretical model that includes external forces acting on the system. if the system included a string with an appreciable mass, the acceleration would remain constant. this is because the string would still be pulling the cart and is considered part of the “system.” 

	sources of random error could have been attributed to either (or both) the uncertainty in the measuring equipment or computer as well as the procedure of the experiment. the scale used to measure the mass had an uncertainty of + or – 0.05 grams, and the computer determined the standard deviation of the velocity v. time graphs for each trial. these uncertainties are represented by the error bars present on the acceleration v. applied force graph. the error bars were slightly larger than they should be, but the graph still shows a positive correlation between acceleration and applied force. the random error due to the procedure could have come from not measuring the mass correctly, not releasing the cart from rest, and not reading the data from the computer correctly. these errors were reduced by taking precise measurements on the scale, making sure that the cart is not accidentally “pushed” when it is released, and only using the most accurate part of the velocity v. time graphs generated by datastudio. if there was any systematic error present, it would have been in the scale or the sensor. systematic errors would have caused the data to shift in one direction or another, rather than on either side of a data point. time is always a constraint in these experiments because there’s never opportunities to run more trials and create more accurate conclusions. another constraint in this experiment is the presence of external forces that could have acted upon the system. these forces included (but were not limited to) friction and air resistance. these forces could have affected the acceleration of the cart, which might have negatively affected the ability to generalize our conclusion.