discussion and conclusion

during week one, the purpose of the lab asked how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes? to test this research question, we used weighted baubles attached to a model car.  we tested eight different forces (or the mass of baubles, which shows up as force) and observed how it affected the acceleration of the car on a frictionless track. the resulting mathematical model we obtain from graph 1 was $y=0.005 x - 0.017$. as we see from graph 1, the greater the force is, the greater the acceleration. thus, as force increases or decreases, so does the acceleration.

during week two, the purpose of the lab asked how can you apply a mathematical model to promote a specific outcome? to test this research question, we used algebra and physics formulas to determine the force needed to achieve an acceleration of 0.6m/s2.  the force needed that we obtained from our calculations was 18.09 n. we used this force to try to obtain the desired acceleration. when we ran two trials, we got accelerations of 0.547±0.0086 and 0.543±0.0071. although these are not exactly 0.6, they are relatively close to the desired value. they are not accurate, but they are precise. this means that you can use a mathematical model to obtain a desired value, however, our calculated force was just slightly off.

during week two we also compared data from other groups to see if our results matched the majority. their data is shown in the pictures below is 

the results of group one’s data as shown in figure 1 agree with our results. as they increased force, the acceleration also increased. there is what is presumably a typo for the force of 0.011n which is likely meant to read 0.11n. their mathematical model is linear like ours, and their experimental model is similar in setup as well. group two’s data also agrees with our findings. when they increased the force, the acceleration increased along with it. 

the experimental model and the theoretical model ($f=m a$) gave the same results is  as force increased, so did acceleration. the mass of the system shows up in the force. a constraint we had was being unable to apply an exact force. because we had no way to apply an exact force, by increasing the mass, we knew we were increasing the force since $f=m a$ another constraint we had was having to use a massless string. because the string is massless, it is very likely to swing instead of dropping straight down. this could prevent constant acceleration. something else that could affect acceleration of the force of kinetic friction. although this is supposed to be a frictionless model, there could have been friction present in the track or in the pulley, although likely negligible. another force present is air resistance. the greater the acceleration, the greater the air resistance present.  these two forces show up in the experimental models through the uncertainty values and the standard deviations. possible systematic errors include incorrect scale calibration (internal calibration, not human calibration), mass of the string, friction in the air track or pulley, or kinks in the string affecting the slope. what could be done to reduce these errors in the future are using a scale known to be calibrated correctly, using a string with more mass and/or one that does not easily wing, lubricating pulley to reduce friction, and using a string with no knots or kinks.

