discussion and conclusions: 



	the purpose of this lab was to be able to identify how an applied force is applied to a system would change the acceleration of that system. our research question was “how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes?” the experiment addressed our research question because we kept adding weight to our system, the cart, to see if our acceleration would change each time we added weight to this system. the mathematical model addressed the research question because our mathematical model shows that when the applied force (mass) was added to the cart, and then the acceleration of the cart, refer to figure 1. this showed that the question was answered, and the factor of force applied had an affect on the acceleration of the cart. 

	we were able to see results from two other groups in the class. these are pictures from both group 3, as well as group 7. 




from group 7, we can tell that their acceleration of their system also increased as the applied force of the same system increased. from group 3’s information, we can also tell that their acceleration of their system also increased as their applied force increased their system. i can tell from the information provided from these groups that our group’s claim was supported by both of the groups information.

	our mathematical model was very similar to the theoretical model. the forces that we took into consideration other than the hanging weight of the bobbers was the force of friction, as well as gravity. these forces showed up in the experimental model because the experiment was only focusing on the force of the hanging mass, so our model could have been off just by having two other forces that did come into affect. the mass of the system showed up in the first part of the experimental model. the experimental model is $a=\frac{f}{m}$. the force was divided by the mass of the bobbers. the mass of the system comes in because it’s what pushed across the air track to give us acceleration. our equation had a number of 0.8576 when the theoretical has a constant number of 0. this shows that they had no error, and we had an error of 0.8576. the non-massless string connecting the hanging mass to the cart may of affected uniform acceleration of the cart because it could of caused the force of tension. since there was mass hanging from the other end of the string, and mass on the string where the cart was attached, this caused the force of tension. this could of affected the acceleration of the cart because if the acceleration increases, the tension increases as well which is making he string attached to the hanging mass tight which still causes the cart to move until it comes to a stop at the end of the air track. 

	there are always some way that we can have error in labs like these where its almost impossible to have fully new equipment, or enough time to do an experiment as much as we can to get near perfect results. a random error could have been the scale that we used to weigh the actual bobbers. we didn’t have a digital scale so we had to eyeball the most even weight that we could see. a way to fix this error is to use a digital scale or it could be fixed by taking an average. a systematic error could have been a number being unable to read on the scale so we’d have to estimate what the numbers are. most were easy to see, there were a couple that were close to being completely rubbed off. if this were conducted again, i would recommend either using a digital scale, or making sure all the numbers are readable. 

	the biggest constraint in this experiment that may limit the generalizability of our results was time. its sometimes very hard to do the experiments with the most accuracy as we can when we have don’t have time. we feel we have to rush because we want to make sure everything is done and sometimes it’s hard. another constraint was the air track. sometimes the air track had a delay start so we had to switch our plan to be able to make sure the air track was fully on whenever the cart was pushed to the stopper. 