conclusion (introduction)
the purpose of the past three investigations was to determine what factors might affect the time length of the period of the pendulum in small swings (20 degree angles of release or less); in this lab (and presumably elsewhere), a period was defined as the time it takes for a pendulum to complete one swing, from its initial drop point to its time of return. in these three investigations, a total of three factors were tested for their relationship to the time length of a pendulum’s period is  these included the mass of the pendulum bob, the angle of pendulum release relative to the pendulum’s hanging apparatus, and the length of the pendulum string. of these three factors, only one factor showed any indication of affecting the time length of pendulum’s period; this factor was the length of the pendulum string attaching the pendulum’s hanging apparatus to the pendulum bob. neither the mass of the pendulum bob and the angle of the pendulum bob release were evidenced to have any correlative relationship with the length of the pendulum. the following discussion will present how these conclusions were reached.
in the first and second lab, the mass of the pendulum bob was examined as a possible independent variable that might affect the time length of the pendulum period in small swings; in proposing this as possible independent variable that might affect the time length of the pendulum period, a possible consideration could be that the greater force given to object with greater mass might make the pendulum travel faster or slower than it might with lesser mass; in perspective of the data accumulated, this possible interpretation is incorrect; in this study, mass was not found to be factor in determining the time length of a pendulum period. that said, the following information explains why.
in table 01, the initial data regarding mass and period time length produced a *relatively* promising outlook that there might might be a direct positive correlation between mass of the pendulum bob and time length of the pendulum period- the average values of the time length of the time period seemed to increase with mass. however, there were multiple problems with this idea. first, the actual range between the average values was highly minimal (only spanning 0.06 between the lower average of the 70 g mass and the upper 110 g mass); also taking into consideration the large  amount of random error produced by human reaction time with the stopwatch and low trial quantities, as well as the +-0.005 second margin of error inherent to the stopwatch , there was no solid guarantee that the produced data values were actually any different from one another. second, the angle being tested for was slightly out the range of what quantified as ‘small swings’ (30 degrees > 20 degrees); this may have affected the nature of the data. however, the biggest evidence and support of the null hypothesis (that is, that mass of the pendulum bob does  affect the time length of the pendulum period) was the addition of the error bars show in figure 01; these error bars were deduced by determining the standard deviation of 10 pendulum trials using the controls (70 g pendulum bob mass, 40 cm string length, and 30 degree angle of release). the large standard of deviation of 0.112274 s (the averages only ranged 0.06 s) put all the of the data procured in table 01 and presented in figure 01 in the same range, making it essentially impossible for there to be any true correlative relationship between pendulum bob mass and time length of pendulum period.
in the first and second lab, the angle of pendulum bob release was examined as a possible independent variable that might affect the time length of the pendulum period; in proposing the angle of release as possible independent variable that might affect the time length of the pendulum period, a possible consideration could be that the greater magnitude of velocity provided by a higher suspension point in space and gravity might provide the pendulum with more speed to complete it period faster. in perspective of the data accumulated, this possible interpretation is incorrect; in this study, angle of pendulum bob release was not found to be a factor in determining the time length of a pendulum period. that said, the following information explains why.
in table 02, the initial data regarding angle of pendulum bob release and pendulum period time length produced no apparent correlation between angle of pendulum bob release and pendulum period time length; case in point, the 20 degree angle of release had a higher average pendulum period time length than both the average of 10 degrees and 30 degrees. further investigation in to the matter  provided further evidenced of a lack of correlation between angle of pendulum bob release and pendulum period time length. taking into consideration the stopwatches high margin of error (0.005) and the datas range of 0.02 between the lowest average value and the highest average, this meant there was no reason to believe that all the data accrued was actually unique. however, the biggest evidence and support of the null hypothesis (that is, that angle of pendulum release doesn not affect the time length of the pendulum period) was the addition of the error bars show in figure 02; these error bars were deduced by determining the standard deviation of 10 pendulum trials using the controls (70 g pendulum bob mass, 40 cm string length, and 30 degree angle of release) (this data is shown in table 04). the large standard of deviation of 0.112274 s (the averages only ranged 0.06 s) put all the of the data procured in table 01 and presented in figure 01 in the same range (creating a very real possibility that all the data was identical), making it essentially impossible for there to be any true correlative relationship between angle of pendulum bob release and time length of pendulum period. taking all of this into account (in the initial lack of correlation), it can be said that there is substantial evidence against a correlative relationship between the angle of release and the time length of the pendulum period.
in the first lab, the second lab, and the third lab, the length of pendulum string was examined as a possible independent variable that might affect the time length of the pendulum period in small swings; in proposing the length of pendulum as possible independent variable that might affect the time length of the pendulum period, a possible consideration could be the longer string length produces a longer arc for the pendulum to travel; this longer distance for a period means. in perspective of the data accumulated, this possible interpretation is correct; in this study, the length of pendulum string was found to be a factor in determining the time length of a pendulum period (it was the only factor of three examined that can accurately be claimed to affect the length of the pendulum period). that said, the following information explains why.
in table 03 and its accompanying graph, figure 03, the initial data regarding length of pendulum string and the time of length of the pendulum period produced seems to indicate a positive direct correlation between pendulum; while an apparent positive relationship seems to exist, this does not however, completely confirm the correlation increasing pendulum string length and increasing time length of the period. when error bars were added (using the standard deviation procured from table 04 [sd is 0.112274], which was produced doing 10 trials with the three control values scattered throughout the experiment (70 g mass, 40 cm string length, and 30 degree angle of release), the certainty of a possible positive correlation was reduced significantly); while the first two average point on graph indicated a positive relationship with error bars, the third trials was within the same range as the first point. as such, the data in table 03 and figure 03 were unable to produce a complete affirmation of the positive correlative relationship between the length of the pendulum string and the time length of the pendulum period. in order to ascertain whether or not the conclusion of a positively correlated relationship between length of pendulum string and the time length of the pendulum period is correct, more data was procured. this is the purpose of table 05 and figure 04. the data procured in table 05 and figure 04 shows proper evidence of an actual direct positive correlation between length of pendulum string and the time length of the pendulum period. first, the variability of tested string lengths along with numerous trials aid in enhancing the precision of the data. the range of data shows a constant increase which ultimately takes the form of a function similar to that of square root function. furthermore, because a photo gate was used in that set of experiment, accuracy was also enhanced and, as such, the margin of error for the data was only + or - 0.001. because the error bars produced by this margin of error are negligible in their effect over what the data means (because they are so small), table 05 and figure 04 provide the final evidence that confirms the hypothesis that the length of the pendulum string has an effect on the time length of the pendulum period. that effect increases with increasing length.
the theoretical equation for a pendulum period time length is , where t is time, l is pendulum length, and g is the gravitational constant; on earth, the gravitational constant is about 9.8 m/s2. with that in mind, an approximation of this equation to better line up with the theoretical equation (with constants arithmetically solved) would be $t= 2.0017 l^{0.5}$.the experimental equation produced by the data procured in this lab (shown in figure 04) is 0 $t=0.2638 l^{0.4516}$, where l is pendulum string length. with both those equations in mind, it can be said with a high degree of certainty that the experimental model equation is not a fitting model for what is known to be the theoretical model. while both the theoretical equation and the experimental equation have similar powers (0.5 vs 0.4516 respectively), the theoretical equation has a scalar which is about 8 times as large as the scalar in the experimental model (2.0017 vs 0.2638). because of this, the theoretical equation will always produce a time value much higher than its experimental counterpart. as a result, it can be said that the experimental model in no way supports the theoretical model because the time outcomes are far different between the two. the data itself showed high affinity for the model produced (r is 0.9912). as a result, the data itself its nigh total agreement with the best fit curve evidence that the theoretical and model produced totally disagree with one another (primarily due to scalar quantities).
random error and systematic error should be discussed. while there was certainly random error throughout the experiment (the most being present in the beginning), there were no systematic errors known throughout the course of the experiment. all mentioned sources of random error and more importantly, systematic error, are hypothetical in relation to the experiment described above. while it is certain random error happened, it is not believed the systemic error was a particular problem.
possible aspects of random error that this set of experiments faced include low number of trials, personal error and reflex in the handling of the stopwatch, imprecise measurement of the pendulum string length resulting from measuring between the measuring increments, imprecise measurement of the angle of release resulting from measuring between the measuring increments, and imprecise measuring of the pendulum bob’s mass resulting from measuring between the increments on the scale. in order to reduce the random error accrued from having only a low number trials, the solution is to perform more trials, thereby increasing the precision and reducing the random error. in order to reduce the random error accrued from personal error and reflexes when handling the stopwatch, the solution is to perform more trials thereby increasing the precision and reducing the random error. in order to reduce random error associated with imprecise measurements of the pendulum string length, imprecise measurements of the angle of release, and imprecise measuring of the bob mass, the solution is to take more measurements in later trials thereby increasing the precision and reducing the random error. 
possible aspects of systematic error that this set of experiment may have faced include possible damage to the pendulum bob resulting in mass loss mid trial, failure to zero the mass scale before utilizing pendulum bob masses, failure to maintain consistent pendulum string length mid experiment, a defect in the stopwatch being utilized, a defect in the the tape measure being utilized, a defect in the photo gate device and accompanying program being utilized, a defect in the protractor being utilized, a defect in the measuring tape being utilized, and a defect in the pendulum apparatus structure (that is, the device holding the pendulum). in order to reduce the systematic error accrued from utilizing a faulty bob mass mid trial, the best way to reduce systematic error is to find a new bob mass with the appropriate mass and adjust the measurements with faulty bob mass for greater accuracy and less systematic error. in order to reduce possible systematic error accrued from failing to properly zero the mass scale when weighing the pendulum bob mass is to deduce when the mistake was made, adjust the values produced using the improperly weighed bob mass for the known possible discrepancy (if possible) and properly weigh out a mass with the desired value. in order to reduce possible systematic error accrued from a failure to maintain consistent pendulum string length mid experiment, the values of the discrepancy should be reduced and the data should be adjusted to fit that discrepancy; afterwards, care should be taken to ensure that the string maintains the proper length when undergoing the test. in order to reduce the systematic error accrued by defect in measuring equipment, the discrepancy between the measuring ability of the defected measuring equipment should be deduced; then, all the data produced with said faulty measuring equipment must be modified based on that discrepancy and then the defected measuring equipment should be replaced. only then can accuracy be increased and systematic error, reduced. in the case of the defective pendulum apparatus, all data should be scrapped. if that’s impossible, then there is nothing that can really be done. a pendulum that doesn’t work like pendulum simply shouldn’t be used in this experiment.
as conclusive statement on experiment, the constraints on the experiment must be mentioned.
there were a number of constraints associated with this experiment. one of these constraints was the maximum length possible for pendulum string, that being around 180 to 190 cm. because the string would hit the floor, greater measurements were no possible under the circumstance of the lab. another constraint was angle of release. angles no greater than 30 degrees were permitted under the context of this experiment, and even then that value was pushing it, as the preferred value was around 20 degrees. another constraint was something that is bound to happen on all earthbound experiment- gravity will always have same acceleration on earth. while the acceleration produced by gravity is certainly variable associated with pendulum movement, the constraints of this not being a laboratory in space or on the moon prevented that specific independent variable from being tested. another constraint , at least in the earlier experiments, was the necessity for a stopwatch. this limited the precision of the data and greatly increased the variability of the data, which kept conclusions from being made at those earlier stages. the addition of the photo gate later on made up for that, but it is still something to consider.
somethings that were taken as is for experiment is the presence of air resistance. while this force exerted by air against the pendulum bob was definitely present, there was no ability to completely remove air (the experiment would have to take place in a vacuum then)
as a concluding statement, it must be pointed out that the only one of the three factors tested and actually ended up affecting the time length of the pendulum period and that was pendulum string length. to deduce whether or not this is the actually true, more testing of a similar type should be carried out.