conclusion:

no measurement uncertainties were found in this experiment.  

the research question is what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?  this was discussed with three independent variables which include length of string, angle of release, and mass of weight.  the angle of release experiment helped us understand that there is a directly proportional relation between the period and the angle of release which is visualized in figure 3.  this was the same as in the mass of weight experiment, which we found a direct relationship between mass of weight and period as seen in figure 4.  in the length of string experiment, this was not the case.  in figures 1 and 2, you can see that there is a non-linear line the relates to the plotted points.  this being said, we can conclude that there is an indirect relationship between length of string and period.  the theoretical mathematical model for a pendulum can be stated as the following equation is  .  the model fits with the data from table 1 and 2 because they are based on the length of string.  since the period has a direct relationship with angle and mass, those are left out of the equation because they would just go up or down along with the period.  being that the length of string changes the period, this is left in the equation.  this equation also does not fit a linear line but follows a power equation line.  the best fit line in figure 2 is also a power equation line, which shows the connection between the model and of experiment.  one type of systematic error that could have occurred would be the scaling on the protractor.  this was a very imprecise tool that we used to measure the angle of release.  this could have caused the readings to be off either below or above the actual degree.  this could be fixed by using a laser to measure an exact angle from the resting hang point. one type of random error that could have occurred was the use of a stopwatch, which causes a variety of errors.  to fix this, we used the photogate to measure a more precise time for the period.  another random error that could have occurred would be the measurement of the length of string.  with only using a tape measure, the measurements could have been skewed by not being exact every time that we measured the string.  one way to fix this would be to have a device that measures the string to a farther out decimal to be more precise.  some constraints that were upon us were time, materials, and not having set data to run.  time was the biggest constraint that we had.  with only having a certain amount of time to run the experiment, it could have caused us to rush and not have the same numbers and data as others did.  not having all the same materials as other lab groups could detract from the ability of generalize the data.  this would be cause numbers to be different in every experiment.  lastly, not having set data to run each experiment on would cause the data to be varied across every lab group.  this would make it hard to put all the data together and show the same answers.