discussion and conclusion

in this lab, the research question investigated was: does the force of a system affect the acceleration of that system? in order to form an experiment exploring this aspect of newton’s laws, a setup had to be made with a known force of friction, a method to control the force acting on the system, a way to keep the mass of the system constant, and a way to measure the acceleration of the system. the setup used in this experiment consisted of an air track with essentially no friction, a cart with a string attached, eight fishing bobbers, a pulley at the end of the track, and datastudio attached to the pulley to measure acceleration. 

starting off with one bobber on the end of the string, hung over the pull (termed the “hanging weight”) the cart was put on the track, the air was turned on, and the acceleration was measured. this was done seven more times, transferring one bobber from the cart to the hanging weight, still maintaining the mass of the entire system. the force due to gravity from the hanging weight was calculated using “g” and the measured mass of each bobber using the equation $f=m g$. table 2 shows the data for these results, and figure 1 shows the trend of the pattern. using newton’s second law, $f=m a$, it was predicted that the data would follow a linear pattern according to the equation $f=m a$, where the f (force due to gravity of the hanging weight) is the independent variable (x) and 1/m is the slope. as shown by the equation for the best fit line in figure 1, our slope was determined to be 4.1897, whereas our theoretical slope would be 5.2882. our slope was a bit off, but it still generally followed the theoretical model. however, there is something else that popped up in our model. our experimental model was $a=4.1897 x+0.015$. this y-intercept comes from the modified theoretical model. since we are doing this experiment in non-ideal conditions, the track is not completely frictionless, and so friction must be accounted for. the adjusted theoretical model then gives the equation $a=\frac{f_g}{m_s}-\frac{f_f}{m_s}$, where fg is the force due to gravity, or the force of the hanging weight, ms is the mass of the system, and ff is the force due to friction. as seen in figure 1, our value for ff(1/ms) is -0.015, which tells us that friction is not actually working against the movement, but working with it. this could be a result of the channels letting air be blown through being at an angle towards the pulley, essentially helping push the cart along. 

two other groups supported our findings, having a similar slope and a negative value for ff(1/ms) when the value would be expected to be positive. group 1 had the model $a=4.486 x+0.0234$ and group 2 had the model $a=4.0483 x+0.0536$. group 2’s ff(1/ms) value was about double that of group 1 and a little over three times that for our model, but they are all fairly similar. 

in the event that a string with appreciable mass was used, a different and much more complicated setup would need to be used. if the string had a mass large enough to contribute to the mass of the hanging weight, the string would also affect the acceleration of the cart because the fg value would keep increasing as the string moved around the pulley. a random error that could have occurred would be the average acceleration of the cart. the datastudio system plots the velocity of the cart at certain time intervals, and the acceleration for the cart must be determined from the slope of the velocities. in order to find the slope, the section of the given graph must be highlighted. if a section of the graph before or after the cart started moving or bounced back were highlighted, then the slope would be affected in either direction. this could be reduced by taking multiple measurements and developing a method to ensure that only the section of the graph we are interested in is highlighted. another error could be from the mass of the string. if the mass of the string was large enough, the acceleration would be affected (as discussed above). this could be reduced by using a string with a smaller mass. some systematic errors that could be discussed would be if the datastudio system consistently read too high or too low or if the balance consistently read too high or too low. 

the major constraints of this experiment include not having a perfectly frictionless track, so it doesn’t follow the theoretical model $f=m a$ perfectly and the string doesn’t weigh exactly 0g, so that will inevitable affect the acceleration (a very small amount). 
