discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this experiment was to test whether or not the acceleration changes when the applied force is changed. figure 1 shows how this experiment was set up during week one. for week two a larger cart was used with a set amount of hanging mass found out using the given acceleration and the model found the week prior, but the overall experimental set up was the same. the model found from week one was . when the given acceleration of 0.45 m/s2 was plugged into the equation, we found that the theoretical force (x in the equation) was 139.49 n. using this force in the equation , representing newton’s second law of motion, we solved for what the theoretical mass of the hanging bobble needed to be. the mass of the hanging bobble was equal to the mass of the large cart multiplied by the given acceleration divided by (9.8 m/s2 – 0.45 m/s2). with the large cart weighing 295.75g, we found that the hanging bobble needed to weigh 14.23g to achieve the given acceleration. the graph in figure 4 shows the positive, linear relationship between the mass of the hanging weight and the acceleration of the system. the error bars on this graph are very small. this means that the measurements are accurate and have little uncertainty. the uncertainty value is +/- 0.001.

	group #3 used the same experimental set up as our group did and obtained an experimental model of . their data of mass of the hanging bobble vs. acceleration showed the same relationship as our groups experiment. a positive, linear line, starting at or near 0 and going up both the x-axis and the y-axis, as shown in figure 6. group #4 also followed the same experimental set up as both our group and group #3. they obtained an experimental model of . similar to figure 3, group #4’s experimental data (figure 7) showed that there was a positive, linear relationship between their force of the hanging mass and acceleration. both of these groups obtained the same relationships as we did, but their experimental models were different. this shows that it doesn’t necessarily matter what values you get, as long as the applied force is changing in a linear fashion, then the acceleration will change with it. 

	the enhanced theoretical equation is  . the experimental model supports the theoretical model. our group had an assigned acceleration of .45 m/s2. the experiment we ran trying to get an acceleration of .45 m/s2 got an acceleration of .411 m/s2, as shown in figure 8. the string that held the two masses together is considered a heavy string because it has a mass associated with it. we did not account for this mass when weighing out the theoretical mass found by the equations. this could have caused the hanging mass to be more and that would have caused the experimental acceleration to increase. not accounting for this weight could have caused us to experience random error. another random error we could have possibly encountered was just taking the weight of one of the bobbers and assuming the rest were approximately the same. if the weights differed, then this could have caused error in our model because the weights of each bobber were not exact. a systematic error that could have occurred was the air track not being calibrated properly. this could have caused more or less friction to be present and would cause a shift in the data. a constraint of this experiment is the equipment we used. if someone were trying to recreate this experiment at large, to generalize it, then they would need access to the same equipment we used with the same uncertainty values. this constraint could make the generizability of the results difficult.


