The Question being investigated in this report was “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings”? The first experiment done was to determine if the mass of a pendulum had any effect on how large/small the period was. After analyzing the data from the experiment, I would say that the period of a pendulum is not affected by the mass in any way. Looking at graph 1 you can see that drawing a straight line across the 1.43 second mark would result in the error for each measurement getting intersected by the line. So, we can conclude that mass has no effect on the pendulum. 
The second experiment was done to test the effect of the angle of release on the period of the pendulum. The data from this test was analyzed and the same conclusion was drawn, that the angle release had no effect on the period of a pendulum. For the same reason as experiment 1, if you draw a straight line through the 1.895 second mark on graph 2 you will see that all the error bars for the graph are intersected by this line. The Third experiment was done to test the effect of length on the period of a pendulum, this experiments data was a little different. The data from the test shows that the length of a pendulum has a significant effect on its period. The data shows that the longer a pendulum gets, the longer its period will be. This is further proven by the fact that not all the error bars will be intersected if a straight line is drawn through a point horizontally in the graph. So, it can be concluded that the period of a pendulum is greatly affected by the length of the pendulum. 

The theoretical mathematical model of a pendulum is is 
$t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$   
The Data collected during the experiments fits with this mathematical model because the period of the pendulum didn’t change in the first two experiments when mass and angle of release were being tested. This is because the theoretical model doesn’t even ask for the mass of the pendulum or the angle it was released at. The theoretical model only asks for the length of the pendulum and the force of gravity and the experiments showed that the pendulums period only changed when the length of the pendulum was changed, exactly like the model predicts. Curve fitting was required for the last experiment and a second order polynomial curve is almost a perfect fit for the data, this makes sense. The theoretical model has a square root which means it would be a second-degree polynomial. Experiments one and two were better fit by a linear trendline because the data had no effect on the period of the pendulum, so the linear trendline was the best fit for those two sets of data due to the negligible amount of change in the periods.

	There were errors during the process of conducting the experiment, starting with the systematic errors found during the experiment were is  the use of different stopwatches (lab provided stopwatches and a phone were used), differing definitions of an oscillation, and different definitions on the length of the pendulum (measuring to the end of the string vs to the center of mass of the pendulum). The random errors found during testing were is  not being able to determine precisely when 10 oscillations had been completed, not being able to press the stop button on the stopwatch when precisely 10 oscillations had occurred. To reduce the amount of systematic error the exact same stopwatch should be used by everyone recording the time, everyone should agree on the point where an oscillation is completed, and the length should be measured to the center of mass of the pendulum at the same spot. To reduce random error the group should take more measurements to average out the collected data and get a more accurate result. Some constrains that were placed on the experiment that prevent the results from being generalized are the maximum angle that we were permitted to drop the pendulum from. Being able to drop the pendulum from an angle of more than twenty degrees may have influenced the length of the period and could totally change the outcome of the results from this experiment. 
