discussion and conclusion 

our lab group answered the question of whether or not changing the force applied to a system affects the acceleration of the system. to do this, we used an air track and a measuring system linked to a computer to calculate the acceleration for each different force we applied. the data we collected from this allowed us to conclude that changing the force does change the acceleration and that these two factors have a linear relationship. our mathematical experimental model is $y=46.976 x + 0.003$ and the theoretical model is 9.8m/188 so a. our mathematical model allowed us to account for factors such as any friction, irregularity in air flow, and gravity. these factors show up in the experimental model through our slope. this is evident when viewing our graph, which has a less steep slope as the theoretical model would have. these outside forces do not significantly affect our data, which is why our errors bars are so small. accounting for these factors gives our conclusion even more validity. the theoretical model is similar to our model except that it does not account for any outside forces besides gravity. if a non-massless string connecting the hanging mass to the cart was used, the uniform acceleration of the cart would be affected because we would be adding in more force as the weight falls. the acceleration graphed line would have a much steeper slope than the massless string acceleration. 
the systematic error present in the experiment would have come from any inaccuracy in the acceleration measuring system and scale used to measure weight. these can be avoided in the future by calibrating the measuring system beforehand and using a known mass to make sure the scale was working accurately. a constraint of the experiment arises with the equipment used (measuring system, air track, scale). it can only be so accurate, and we are limited to the materials we have available. our generalizability of results is affected by this because we did not have a large sample size. comparing to the other groups and seeing their results helps our generalizability (if their data supported ours, which it did, seen below).
we collected data from two other groups displayed below. 
again, this data also supports my group’s findings. the graphed data is almost perfectly linear with an r^2 value of 0.9905 (ours was 0.9993) and a similar slope of $y=47.344 x-0.0216$. you can see the acceleration increased as the force applied increased. thus, the conclusion this group came to supports our conclusion.