discussion and conclusion



the research question being investigated is “what affects the pendulum swing period?” in week one, we first tested the angle of the swing to see if varying angles had an effect on the pendulum swing period. table 1 and figure 1 show that there is no relationship between the angle of release and the swing time. we next tested whether the mass of the pendulum impact the pendulum swing period. again, when looking at table 2 and figure 2, the mass has no effect on the swing time. the last factor we investigated was string length. varying the string length does have an effect on the pendulum swing time as seen in table 3 and figure 3; the longer the string length, the longer the period of the pendulum to swing back and forth. in week 2, we did ten trials of the same string length (50cm) to collect raw data in order to calculate a standard deviation. because one standard deviation was too small to see as error bars on graphs, we calculated two standard deviations and added these error bars to week one’s graphs. in week three, we used the photogate to get more accurate readings of the pendulum swing period to create a mathematical model for the period of the pendulum. 

after rearranging the theoretical model to fit the experimental model, the following equation matches the equation from the graph is    . we were able to come up with the full model from this lab because we obtained the accurate relationship between string length and period is    if you compare this with our experimental values on our graph (figure 4), the values are similar. at 50 cm on our graph, the time is approximately 1.5 s. the mathematical relationship between the length and the period was linear in week one (figure 1) when including error bars. in week three, however, the power curve was the best fit line for the data (figure 4). the equation for the best fit line in figure 4 is $y=0.11770264 x$ . the angle of release and the mass of the weight did not affect the period of the pendulum; therefore, they should not be factored into the mathematical model. the length of the string was the only independent variable that affected the pendulum period and that had a clear relationship is  as the string length increased, the period time increased.

the errors of this experiment fall under random error and systematic error. potential random errors in this experiment were starting or stopping the stopwatch at the wrong incorrectly, measuring the wrong string length, and measuring the wrong angle length. potential systematic errors include the weight measurements being off and the stopwatch being slow. although some degree of error is unavoidable, there are ways to reduce error. to reduce random error, have one person do the same job. this way, even if the errors a not accurate, they will be precise because the same person measures in the same way. to avoid systematic error, try to use newer weights that are less likely to have chips or defects that could change the weight. also, use scales that have been recently calibrated or timers with new batteries.

to conclude, string length is the only variable that affects the pendulum swing time. a constraint of this experiment includes the number of trials done. for each independent variable, we only did one trial for each angle, weight, and length tested. to obtain more accurate results in the future, doing more than one trial would be ideal.