Based on the slopes of the graphs; Mass (.0032); Angle (.0011) and Length (.04), the only variable that affects the Pendulum Swing is the length of the string. The slopes for the Mass and Angle are too small to make an impact on the pendulum. There was some random error present in the experiment. This may include not starting or stopping the stopwatch appropriately. There could be systematic error in the tape measure or protractor as well.
The standard deviation was calculated to be .14 which allowed us to put error bars. You can see that they were added to lab 1 graphs. The error bars support our analysis that proposed length was the only thing to affect the pendulum swing. When looking at the first and last of the error bars, if they cross over each other than the two variables are dependent. If they don’t cross over each other then they are independent. Based on the graph, the only one that is independent is the length. 

When graphing the data, we were told to use the scale error of .001 to account for the uncertainty of the photogate. The error bars are so small that they cannot been seen on the graph itself. This lab had less random error than the last 2 because it removes a lot of the random error from human error in timing the oscillations. There is still random error present because a person is dropping the weight. They could be applying a force without knowing it. There is systematic error for the photogate which we have taken account for but there is also potential systematic error in the tape measure and protractor. Although there is still error present, the results still support the initial analysis from the first lab. The length is the only variable to affect the period of the pendulum swing.

Research Question is  How does the weight, angle of drop or length of string affect the period of a pendulum? The Length of the string affects the period of the pendulum in a direct, positive correlation. The weight and the angle of drop does not affect the period of the pendulum based on the small slopes found in the graphs from lab 1.