discussion/ conclusion:

in this experiment, the research question tested was: what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? it includes “small swings” because in the results we find that the equation $t=0$.5 only works for small angles (under 20 degrees). in the experiment section where the mass(g) was the independent variable, no correlation was found. therefore, mass(g) has no effect on the time it takes for a pendulum to complete a period. because there is no correlation, no error bars are included in figure 6. figure 6 shows that there is no correlation between time and mass. therefore, mass has no effect on how fast or slow the period of the pendulum goes and was quickly accepted. in the experiment section where string length (cm) was the independent variable, a positive correlation was ultimately found. because of this, error bars were not included in figure 1. in figure 1 there seems to be a slight positive correlation, so another trial was run. in figure 4, it shows that there is a strong positive linear correlation between angle of release and time of a period pendulum. in the experiment section where angle of release (degrees) was the independent variable, a negative correlation was found. because of this, error bars were not included in figure 5. in figure 5 it shows a clear correlation between the angle of release and the time it takes a pendulum to go back and forth. as the angle of release increases, the pendulum period deceases. this shows a negative linear correlation in the graph. this correlation was run again to find that there is no correlation between angle of release (degrees) and the time of a pendulum period (s). this is shown in figure 2. for string length vs. time, it was predicted that the longer the string, the longer the period of the pendulum would be. in the angle of release vs. time graph the results made sense because it was predicted that the larger the angle of release, the longer the period of the pendulum. therefore, the data was quickly accepted. after the first, lab it was thought that angle of release and time had a correlation. this had much to do with error. in the second lab, data was changed so that larger increments would be used so that this error could be resolved. it is now known that the small oscillation principle played a large role in this comparison. the angles chosen were too large to even be considered in this experiment. to fix this data could have been compared to other data sets of other groups. the theoretical equation $t=0$.5 differs from the found (actual) equation, which was $t=0.12$. both equations are represented by power functions however, the discrepancy between these equations is unknown but could be due to the fact the data could have been slightly skewed. so, the data found supports the actual equation $t=0.12$. there are some random errors that could have influence the data. these random errors include is  human reaction rate when using the stopwatch, the string used for the pendulum stretched therefore giving incorrect measurement, multiple people taking measurements instead of one person, difficulty in measuring where the pendulum switches directions, tape measuring was done by multiple people, small oscillation principle, not using significant figures correctly or taking multiple measurements and averaging them, using the same person for each measurement, etc. systematic error includes is  uncalibrated stopwatch, stretched tape measure, and an uncalibrated balance. data with the photogate was a more precise and accurate representation of the data because it eliminated most human error. constraints of this experiment include limited string length and the amount of mass that could be used. through all of this, it is clear that the only true correlation in this experiment was between string length and the time of a pendulum period. in replicating this experiment, a data set with an actual mathematical model could be found to be extremely close to the theoretical mathematical model.