In this lab, we are investigating which variables impact the period of a pendulum swing. Each of the three experiments helped address this question based on the trials we completed. For the length of string experiment, we saw a positive, power relationship between the dependent and independent variables, time of swing and length of string respectively. For the mass of weights vs. period of swing graph, there was not enough of a distinction between the data points to form a relationship. For the angle of drop vs period of swing, there is a positive, linear relationship. Each experiment tells us that the length of string does impact the period of swing, the mass of weights does not impact the period of swing, and the angle of drop does impact the period of swing. 
The theoretical mathematical model is  $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$  where x is string length (cm) and t is period of swing (s). To know if this equation is correct, we have to put “g” to one side and solve for it, then we should have a close value to the acceleration of gravity, 9.8 m/s^2. For each experiment, we substitute .5 for the y intercept of each equation and rearrange the equation to solve for g. 
Some systematic errors could include consistently starting and stopping the stopwatch too early or too late. A way to fix this is to have one person with two timers completing 4 trials so the timers receive the same reaction time even if it is +/- 0.1 seconds off. Another systematic error is not using a tool with a certain precision necessary, for example we used a measuring tape that only measured in mm. If we needed a more precise value, we would need to estimate. A way to fix this issue is to get a more precise tool for measuring. A random error would be overshooting or undershooting the pendulum when dropping it. A way to fix that is to actively look at your hand and make sure you just drop it rather than using force to drop it, also to make sure the same person drops it not only for each trial but also for each experiment. Another random error is not dropping it at the correct angle each time. A way to fix this is to have two people looking at either side of the protractor to make sure the angle is correct and not moving as the one dropping it may look at their hand to see they are not under/overshooting it. 
A constraint we had in this lab was when testing the length of the string, the longest length that could be tested was 150 cm, which limited our values when tested in the mathematical equation.