discussion and conclusion:



	in this lab, we investigated whether or not the mass, length, or angle of release of a pendulum would affect its period for small swings. in order to determine what had an effect on the period of the pendulum we ran three experiments and in each one kept two variables constant while altering the other to isolate its effect on the period. after we ran the experiment for each variable we graphed the data in order to look for a trend that would relate that variable to the period. figure 1 is  mass vs. period and figure 2 is  angle of release vs. period displayed unclear relationships between the mass and angle of the pendulum and the period. error bars did not contribute to the relationship being unclear as they were too small to be seen. therefore, no claims can be made relating mass or angle of release to the period. however, figure 3 is  length of pendulum v. period displayed a positive relationship between the two variables. additionally, the error bars were too small to be seen and therefore had no effect on the relationship. this allowed us to claim that as the length of the pendulum increases the period will as well. 

once we determined that only length effected the period, we ran the experiment for length v. period again but with a photogate to measure time instead of hand timing to limit uncertainty. our results from this experiment are displayed by table and figure 4. once we graphed the data, we fit it to an exponential curve because it gave us an r^2 value of .993 which was closer to one than the linear model. a polynomial curve was not fitted to the data because the polynomial can continue to be expanded until its r^2 value is exactly one making it inaccurate. the exponential model gave us an experimental model of $y=2.982 x^{0.4}$ which was then compared to the theoretical model of $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$  they were compared for the length of .5 meters which gave us a period of 1.41 seconds for the theoretical and 2.26 seconds for the experimental. our experimental model produced a period that was slightly higher than the theoretical which may be attributed to error.

	error in this lab can be attributed to both random and systematic factors. random error that could have affected our lab results included people bumping into the table while the pendulum was swinging. to minimize this we made sure no one was near the table while we ran our trials. systematic error that could have affected our results includes not releasing the pendulum from the exact angle and not correctly measuring the length of the string listed in each trial. this would have caused our data to consistently be higher or lower than it should have been. in order to reduce this, we carefully measured both the length of the string or the angle of release for each trial to be as accurate as we could be. 

	although we believe we collected accurate data that lead us to an accurate conclusion about the relationship between the length of a pendulum and its period we may have not ran enough trials with different lengths of the string to be able to generalize our results. additionally, we only tested the effect of length on the period for short swings and it may have differed if we had investigated longer swings as well. therefore, we may not be able to completely generalize our conclusion that as the length of a pendulum increase so will its period.