conclusion:

	in the past few labs, our class was discovering how mass, length and angle affects the period of the pendulum’s oscillation. to configure how these selected independent variables affected our dependent variable or period of the pendulum’s oscillation, we had to test each independent variable separately. what the end results illustrated is that mass and angle have no to very little relationship to the period of the pendulum’s oscillation. however, length had affected the period of the pendulum’s oscillation, therefore there was a relationship that correlated with the dependent and independent variable. in graph 1.1(angle) and 1.2 (mass) it is illustrated that there is little connection between the dependent and independent variable. this is because the period of the pendulum’s oscillation value was similar throughout the collection of data that was tested with each different measurements of the independent variable. for example, for angle we used the degrees 5, 10 and 15 degrees and each measurement of these independent variables resulted in a similar dependent value, and this is shown in graph 1.1 and figure 1.1. however, in graph 1.3 (length) it is demonstrated that the length or independent variable was affecting the outcome of our dependent variable, which was the period of the pendulum’s oscillation. this is because there was a relationship between an increasing length affecting the results of the period of the pendulum’s oscillation.


	the pendulum equation was derived from the equation, $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ , to generate a new equation for our lab experiments which was, $y=c_1 x^{c_2}$. this equation was tested with the data collected by inserting the dependent variable or the period of oscillation into the experimental equation and then comparing the solution to the pendulum theory. this equation was tested in lab three, where the length (the independent variable) and period of the pendulum’s oscillation (the dependent variable) was calculated using the pendulum equation and resulted in a sum of 1.42 seconds at 50 centimeters. looking at graph 1.3(length) it can be shown graphically that the sum of the pendulum equation is accurate to the graph that was created using the data on excel. the length diagram has an exponential curve due to its relationship with the period of the pendulum’s oscillation. however, the two other independent variable, mass and angle, had a linear line for their graphs and this is because there was no connection between independent and dependent variables in those two experiments, which can be graphically shown in graph 1.1(angle) and 1.2(mass). graph 1.3(length) illustrates an exponential growth that can be seen by just looking at the graph, this is because when length is increased the dependent variable (period of the pendulum’s oscillation) grows at a proportional rate because it is affected by the change of length. 


	in lab three we used the photogate when testing the independent variable, length. this lowered the random error of the experiment because there was no human to be relied on to control the stopwatch. this step gave the data less uncertainty, which generated data that was more inclined to being more precise, compared to having a human working a stopwatch. a human controlling the stopwatch can generate more risk of measurement technique error, and that can then affect the standard deviation of the data. however, there was another factor of random error due to the time restraint in lab one. the shorten time for lab gave our group less time to test all three independent variables multiple times. for example, we only tested the mass 50 grams once, then 70 grams once, and finally 90 grams once. to make our data more accurate we should have tested each different mass amount multiple times, and then created a mean for each different mass that was tested. if classroom time wasn’t a contributor, then our lab group could have tested each independent mass multiple time, which would have created a more precise mean of all the data that was collected. the other source of error was systematic error, which was a factor for our experiment when testing angle as the independent variable.  the angles were measured with a protractor that was given to our group for our lab supplies, however this wasn’t a precise tool to use. the protractor wasn’t calibrated to generate a correct degree and thus the true zero wasn’t actually zero when using the plastic protractor in the experiment testing the independent variable, angle. this means that our angles are not true to the value that was stated in figure 1.1 and graph 1.1 because the protractor was not measuring true zero. 


	 one minor constraint would be the time limit for the first lab. the limited time constrained our lab group to quickly decide a procedure and then execute the lab in a fast past. however, i don’t think it affected the results to an extended measurement, but it could have resulted in multiple random errors due to measurement technique error that could have been happening because of the time limit. i do not think that the data was skewed to the point that the data was unable to be used to discuss the learning topics and discover the reasoning’s behind why some independent variables affected the period of the pendulum’s oscillation and why some did not. however, it could be the factor to why our lab group’s results differed from other groups using similar independent variable measurements.