discussion/conclusion:

	the purpose of this lab was to determine how changing the applied force would impact the acceleration of the system. the data collected in the experiment (data table 1) showed as the applied force (hanging mass) increased the acceleration of the system increased. the mathematical model generated from this experiment is not perfect because the desired y-intercept would be zero and the equation created from this experiment (found in graph 1) had a non-zero y-intercept, however it showed as x increases the y value increases where x is the hanging mass or applied force and y is the acceleration of the system. the experiment showed a linear relationship between applied force and acceleration. the data collected from group nog also showed as the applied force increased the acceleration of the system increased. the trendline of the graph is also linear (nog). while group red ram did not include a data table, their graph showed a linear relationship between the applied force and the acceleration of the system. this showed there is some consistency meaning multiple groups came to a similar conclusion which is there is a linear relationship between the applied force and the acceleration of the system. the theoretical model would be the net force divided by the mass of the system to get the acceleration of the system. the experimental model showed linear relationship which should have had a y-intercept of zero did not meaning if there was no applied force there would still be some acceleration. this could have been a result of friction or the track may have been tilted causing motion even when there was no force being applied to the system. the mass of the system throughout the experiment was kept constant so the mass would not have impacted the results. it is uncertain whether the string used impacted the results because the string was old, so it was a bit stretchier and this could have impacted the acceleration. random errors could have been the use of the scale to measure the weight of the system, the distance the cart traveled was not constant. a systematic error could have been the track being possibly tilted and things such as dust causing the system to undergo some sort of friction. to reduce error the same person measured the weight of the system each time and the same person set up the cart and the hanging mass as well as flipping the switch to start and stop each trial in the experiment. we were restricted by having an inconsistent way to find the mass of the system and we did not have control over the track or other materials in the experiment.


