discussion and conclusion:
	the purpose of this lab was to investigate how acceleration of a system is changed when the force applied to that system is changed. based on newton’s second law, the force is equal to the mass multiple by the acceleration, a prediction was made that as the force increased, the acceleration would increase as well. the first experiment, the hanging weight served as the independent variable, therefore it was possibly to measure the effect on acceleration. by increasing the applied force little by little for a total of eight trials a set of data could be collected. the applied force was represented by the hanging mass of bobbers on the string attached to the gold cart. the total mass of the system (0.1881 g) stayed constant, by keeping all the bobbers on either the string or the gold cart. the difference came from moving one bobber at a time to the string to represent the hanging mass. as the hanging mass was increased after each trial, the acceleration was also increasing. this increase is evident when looking at the data collected using data studio. when considering this outcome, it made sense to reconsider newton’s second law. if the mass of the system (m in the equation $f=m a$ was staying constant, but the applied force (f) was becoming larger, something on the other side of the equation needed to support that increase. the only other variable on the other side of the equation is acceleration (a). 
	graph 9 continues to support this prediction. applied force is represented on the x-axis, and acceleration is represented on the y-axis. the data shows a fairly linear, positive line yielding the mathematical model $y=4.2973 x + 0.101$ giving a r-squared value of 0.9662. the error bars from the uncertainties given for each data point were so small they could not be seen in the graphical representation of the data.
	this data was continuous supported by other lab groups findings. the monkeys findings showed that there is a positive relationship between the applied force and acceleration of the system. this group also kept the system’s mass consistent, at 190.35 g, as well as a starting point of 900 mm. after evaluating the data they had received, a mathematical model of $y=0.0043 x + 0.055$ was found. although this is not as dramatic as the value mentioned above, it is still showing a positive linear relationship between these two variables. in addition to the monkeys findings, team squrt found similar discoveries. this group also kept the same variables consistent. they too found a positive linear relationship between applied force and acceleration. one major difference in the results of this groups findings is that the mathematical model ($y=4.346 x + 0.1698$ has a much smaller r-squared value of 0.7829. this smaller r-squared value shows that the relationship is not as strong as the one found in the study mentioned above. however, the slopes of the lines are extremely similar as well as the y-intercept. 
the mathematical model found in the first part of this lab was validated when utilized in the second part of the lab. an acceleration of 0.55 m/s^2 was given and it was necessary to solve for the value of the hanging mass required to move a larger red cart. this model was compared to the theoretical equation $\frac{f_{hanging} + f_{unknown}}{m_{sys}} = a$. the mass of the system is involved in the slope, where it equals the inverse of the mass, in addition to the y-intercept (b) which is equal to the force, which is unknown, multiple by the inverse of the mass. the extra force relates to the fitting parameters in that it is increasing the sum of the forces, therefore if acceleration is now being kept constant, it was necessary to figure out what weight should be added to maintain acceleration even though there is an extra force acting on the object.

	if there were a scenario where there was a heavy string connecting the hanging weight with the cart, this would have to be involved in the weight of the hanging mass. because the string used was so light, it’s weight could be considered insignificant. however if it were to be given a mass that had an effect on the system, it’s effect would need to be taken into account. in this scenario, the acceleration would increase even more, because the weight of the string would add to the hanging mass, and as the group findings from above have evidence for, as hanging mass (applied force) increases, so will acceleration. 

	random errors that may have taken place during this experiment include air resistance and friction, if these two were present, it would have caused the acceleration to be slower than what is actually would have been had the surface been perfectly frictionless, and air resistance perfectly negligible. the track could have been greased or wiped down to encourage greater chance that it would be frictionless. the weight of the bobbers may also have varied slightly, causing discrepancies in the data. this could have easily been fixed by weighing each of the bobbers out separately to get their individual mass, instead of assuming they were all the same. in addition, faulty equipment such as the vacuum could have also caused error. it is possible the vacuum was not exhibiting as much pressure as what was expected, as well as uncertainty from data studio would need to be taken into account, these discrepancies were taken into account by means of error bars on our data’s graph. lastly, point of release differences as well as level of air track could have caused discrepancies in data as well. these could have been fixed by setting a level on the track to make sure that it was actually level. we could also have marked a point of release on the track using a meter stick to make sure it was the same every time.

	a constraint within this particular lab is that it was in a controlled setting, where air resistance and friction were told to be negligible, however that is not always the case. it is also possible to have more than just an applied force and friction included in the summation of forces. this would effect the acceleration greatly depending on what those other forces are.