discussion and conclusion. 

	this lab investigated the differences in the acceleration of a cart when changing the force applied to it through a hanging mass. by changing the weight of the hanging mass, the force on the system changes as well and the different accelerations according to these weights can be measured, therefore, allowing us to answer the original research question that asked how the acceleration of a system changes according to a change in the applied force on that system. when initially setting up the system, it was recognized that the mass of the entire system must remain constant throughout each trial in order to calculate an accurate mathematical model in the end. therefore, the overall number of bobs on the entire system remained the same while the number of bobs hanging on the end of the string and on the cart were changed between each trial (table 1). this allowed us to measure the applied force’s, which came from the differing weights of the hanging mass, effects on the acceleration of the cart. the graph of force vs acceleration (figure 1) shows that there was a positive, linear relationship between the two variables, so that each time a bob was added to the hanging mass, the acceleration of the cart increased, as well. the mathematical model that came from this graph $a=4.2224 f + 0.0358$ which also says that the acceleration of the cart increases linearly as the force due to the hanging mass increases. 

	some other forces that may be present in the experiment include sources of friction such as that between the track vs the cart and the string vs the pulley. this may have not been accounted for because this system was supposed to be seen as a frictionless system, however, it is nearly impossible to get rid of all friction in this environment.

in the theoretical model ($f=m a$) mass of the system appears as the variable ‘m’, which remained constant throughout the experiment. since the mass of the system was found to be 0.18955 kg, we compared this value to our found experimental model ($a = 4.2224 f + 0.0358$) by using 1/m(system). this value was found to be (1/.18955 is 5.276). when comparing to the experimental value of 4.2224, they were found to be similar but not exact due to possible systematic errors. we then compared this value to that of some other groups who produced values of 4.4681(figure 4 in pdf) and 4.8214 (figure 5 in pdf), which were also similar but not exact to the calculated value using 1/m(system). the acceleration should still be uniform because the mass of the string should remain consistent throughout the experiment. in order to achieve this, the string’s mass would just have to be accounted for when calculating the total mass of the system. a random error that was not taken into account was that each individual bob held a different weight. it was assumed that each bob weighed 5.35 g, however, they may have differed by small amounts which could have skewed the overall calculations. in order to avoid this error, each bob should be measured and marked with their appropriate weight at the start of the experiment.  a systematic error that was present during this experiment was the fact that the string tied to the system contained many small knots. these knots could have created unnecessary friction and, therefore, could have altered the acceleration of the system. by using a smooth string with no knots present, less friction would have been produced thus creating a more accurate acceleration for the cart.

many constraints were present during this experiment that may have limited the generalizability of the results in the end. the moment that the cart was released was when the timer should have begun, but because of human error, these release times may not have been in sync thus altering the found mathematical model between each trial. if we had a way to simultaneously start the clock the moment that the cart was released, then the accuracy of the mathematical model could be improved.