discussion and conclusion 

the research question being investigated in this lab was ‘what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?’ 

the first experiment investigated whether the length of the string impacted the period length. the experimental design template can be seen in table 1. the data found in this experiment is shown in table 4, and a graph of this data is shown in figure 1. as seen in these tables and graphs, a positive linear relationship with a slope of .0157 and error bars for each data point that only slightly overlap showed that as the length of the string increases, the period of the pendulum also increases, so the hypothesis failed to be rejected. 	

the second experiment investigated whether the mass of the pendulum impacted the period length. the experimental design template can be seen in table 2. the data found in this experiment is shown in table 5, and a graph of this data is shown in figure 2. as seen in these tables and graphs, and by observing the slope of .007 and the error bars for each point that all overlap, the mass of the pendulum does not significantly affect the period length. the hypothesis was rejected.

the third experiment investigated whether the angle of release impacted the period length. the experimental design template can be seen in table 3. the data found in this experiment is shown in table 6, and a graph of this data is shown in figure 3. as seen in these tables and graphs, a positive linear relationship with a slope of .0085 and error bars for each point that only slightly overlap indicated that as the angle of release increased, the period length also increased. therefore, the hypothesis failed to be rejected. for all three of these graphs, the equivalency criterion of + or – 2 standard deviations indicates that the true value of each data point lies within the error bars with a 95% confidence level. 

the first experiment investigating whether the length of the string impacted the period length was conducted over again, but this time using a photogate to record more accurate measurements of period length. the data found from this experiment can be seen in table 7 and a graph of this data is shown in figure 4. the error bars are too small to be seen on this graph because the photogate has a small error of only .001 seconds. the relationship was now discovered to be non-linear, which is different from what we collected in earlier labs. through this further experimentation it is shown that the relationship is a power relationship, with the equation for the line being $y=0.2995 x^{0.4234}$. when compared to the theoretical mathematical model, $t=2\pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ and the expected values of 2.01 and .5, it can be seen that our constant values of .2995 and .2434 do coincide with the expected values and that they do fit the model. we were instructed to not test the other variables, such as pendulum mass or angle of release so it cannot be said if they too coincide with the theoretical model. 

the possible random errors that could have been present in this experiment were incorrectly measured angles between trials, incorrect usage or measurement of the ruler to measure string length, or human error in stopping the stopwatch at the correct time. the systematic errors that could have been present in this experiment were a time delay on the stopwatch or an incorrectly calibrated scale used to measure mass. to reduce these errors, multiple trials were taken of each experiment as this helped to eliminate human error. also, it was made sure that all measurement instruments were calibrated correctly including the stopwatch and the scale. in the future, to eliminate random errors, the measurement technique could be refined by not estimating significant figures. 

the constraints within the experiment that may affect the generalizability of the results are that a very large string length or a very large angle of release could not be tested because there wasn’t enough physical space in the lab room.