discussion

through experimentation, the question being answered in this lab is what variable(s) affect the period of oscillation of a pendulum. in order to answer this question, 3 variables were tested to see if they had an effect on the period of oscillation of a pendulum. the first tested was length of the pendulum. after initially testing 3 points, to find that there was a positive relationship between length of the pendulum and period of oscillation, this variable was tested again at a later lab date to find that the relationship was a positive power relationship. after trying a linear fit, which resulted in a poor r^2 value, a power fit was tried; the resulting r^2 value was .9999. this is shown in graph 1. as the length of the pendulum increases so does the period of oscillation. however, the period of oscillation begins plateauing as the length increases. the second variable tested was mass of pendulum. as mass increased the period of the pendulum did not. this is seen in graph 2. the points are fairly linear, and the error bars overlap. an important point to note is while it does appear as though a large difference could be between trial 1 and trial 3, the scaling of the y-axis reveals that the points are very similar in value. the final variable tested was angle of release. as seen in graph 3, there was no relationship between the angle of release of a pendulum and the period of oscillation. the points are not statistically significant from each other, as the points in graph 2 were. testing these three variables revealed that the length of the pendulum does have an effect on the period of oscillation. comparing these three variables to the theoretical mathematical model,  (where l is length, t is the period of oscillation, and g is gravity), it makes sense that length was the only variable to affect the period. angle of release and the mass of the pendulum do not affect the period of the pendulum. errors that were present through lab were both of random and systematic error. sources of random error include is  improperly measuring the angle of release, the length of the pendulum, and incorrectly timing the period of oscillation. these errors were minimized by having the same person complete each task. this allowed for an increase in consistency in these areas. the major source of systematic error came about during the second set of trials run for the length vs. period experiment. in this experiment, the length of the pendulum that was taken did not include the metal hook. this caused the equation from the graph to be errored as well with a lower r^2 value. to adjust for this error, the length of the hook was measured and added to each length used in the trials. after this adjustment, the r^2 value increased to .9999. the constraints on the experiment that might cause the generalizability to be limited include the experiment being completed indoors on a table. this limited the ability to test larger length values and test the relationship to an end. the experiment was also completed indoors. this would cause the data to not apply to data that is collected outside. 



conclusion

	after testing three variables to identify which affected the period of oscillation of the pendulum, the group arrived at the conclusion that the only variable that affects the period of oscillation of the pendulum is the length of the pendulum. neither the mass of the pendulum nor the angle of release of the pendulum affected the period of the pendulum. the relationship that length has with the period of oscillation is a positive power relationship. this is further backed by the equation that was calculated using the length vs. period graph. the equation that we got was . this is very close in value to the theoretical mathematical model.