discussion and conclusion

     as stated in the beginning, in this lab we were examining idea that different variables affected the period of a pendulum. we conducted three different experiments where we tested three different variables. we only changed one (independent) variable while keep the other two consistent (control). these three experiments helped to address the research question by testing the effects that are most prominent on the pendulum (gravity (mass), length of string (size of swing), angle at start (size of period). 

      looking at graph ii, for example, we see that as the angle increases so does the period. though the difference in angle increments we used were small, if you focus in on trials 1,3, and 5 you see that the period increases by approximately .10 each time showing a linear relationship. the same idea can be seen by looking at graph iii where we see as the length of string increases so does the period showing another linear relationship. however, the same is not for graph i. though the numbers seem to be increasing, when taking into account two standard deviations (which we are using for this lab) and error bars, we find there is no significant change and that we are 95% confident in our results that the mass does not affect the period. 

     the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ with t being the period and l being the length of the string. in our results, if we look at graph iv we see our theoretical model to be $t= 0.2039 x^{0.4948\sqrt{l}}$ with an r^2 value of 0.99 making us confident that our equation and graph is a line of best fit to the data plotted. factors such as human error, photogate error, stop and start location of the period, sway of the string, and misreading of protractor are all possible errors that we were not, however, to end up with the exact same equation since we are not able to do enough trials and experiments to end up with the theoretical model. 

     as stated before we discussed random and systematic error. in this lab possible systematic errors included but were not limited to is  our tape measure being worn out, the weights being slightly off, our protractor being cracked, and our photogate being off. random errors in this lab included but were not limited to is  using the tape measure correctly, estimating the angle but not using the exact degree, not allowing the pendulum to swing a full period. solutions for our systematic error in this lab could be to use a new tape measure, measuring the weights on a precise scale to determine their known value, using a new photogate and/or using a new protractor. our random error could be fixed by doing more trials and averaging out the results, using exact measurements, and allowing for the pendulum to swing a full period.

     ultimately, in the lab we were able to test three different variables and see their results on period of the pendulum. at first glance, it seemed like every variable had the same relationship with the period ---- a linear one. however, by looking at data more carefully and using two standard deviations, we were able to see that the mass indeed had no effect on the period since there was no noticeable difference in error bars and we were able to be 95% confident in our results because of our use of two standard deviations away from the mean. this makes sense if you were to look at newton’s second law to see why there would be no change in the period. limitations in time, material, and experimental design hindered us from completely reaching the exact mathematical results and model. however, we were still able to reach a general understanding of the results and they matched up accordingly how they should. in conclusion, the angle and length of string effected the period of the pendulum while the mass did not. this was concluded by both our data and mathematical models that were found.