discussion and conclusion



experiment guiding question: what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?



from the data collected in table 4, and the graph produced from said data, it can be said that mass does not impact the period of a pendulum during small swings. this claim can be backed up by data shown in table 5. this data table shows very little variation in the period length values between all five trials. this claim is also shown by the data graphically displayed in figure 2.  the graph shows an almost completely horizontal line, which means the data does not vary much between each trial. the small amount of variation observed can be explained by random error. such errors could include poor timing for a trial. the variations are too small to consider them contrary to the claim regarding mass. the error bars on figure 2 are very small, meaning that the variation from each data point varied very little from the mean of the data. a small variation supports the precision of the data. the standard error for this set of data was .012. this is a very small standard error, which correlates with the small standard error bars.

	from the data collected in table 5 and the graph produced from said data, the claim that length affects the period of a pendulum during small swings can be made. this can be backed by the data presented in table 4. this data table shows that as the length of the pendulum increases, the period of the pendulum also increases. the graph in figure 1 shows this linear relationship. the error bars on figure 1 are small. this supports precision in the data collection, which further supports the claim and the validity of it. the standard error for this set of data was .057, which is small. this supports the claim in the same way the small error bars do.

from the data collected in table 6, and the graph produced from it, it can be said that the angle of release has no impact on the period of a pendulum. this claim can first be backed from the data collected in table 6. the data collected shows very little variation in the period length between each trial. this claim is also supported by the graph shown in figure 3. the graph shows an almost completely horizontal line, which shows there is no relationship between the period of a pendulum and the angle of release. the small amount of variation can be explained by random error. an example of random error would be inconsistency in starting or stopping the stopwatch. the variations that are visible are too small to be considered contradictory to the claim. the error bars on figure 3 are too small to be seen. this means there was little variation from the individual data points and the mean of the data. a small variation in the data set supports the precision of the data collection. the standard error for this data set was .003. the small standard error correlates with the small standard error bars on figure 3.

the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. in lab we created our own mathematical model by preforming the length vs. pendulum period experiment. since this was the only variable that affected the period, it was the only variable that needed to be tested. by graphing the points seen in figure 4, a relationship can be observed. the line that best fits the data points collected was an exponential function. when getting the equation from the line, the equation was found to be $y=2.0301 x^{0.4177}$. this equation is very similar to the theoretical equation equivalent which is $y=2.007 x^{0.5}$. since the equation formed by the data collection and the theoretical equation were so similar, it can be said that mathematical model created is the same as the theoretical equation.

in this experiment, it can be assumed that there is systematic and random error due to the slight variation in data points. the random errors that could have occurred in this experiment include starting the stopwatch late or early and releasing the pendulum to high or too low. to eliminate the random error in this experiment, one could test different measuring tools like the protractors and stopwatches to see which of the available instruments were most precise. the sources of systemic error in this experiment include not aligning the protractor correctly and measuring the string length with the metal piece connected to the tape measure. to eliminate the systematic error, multiple trials could be conducted under the same conditions. then after preforming the trials, the average could be taken of the period lengths.

this experiment was conducted in a university physics lab. because this experiment was conducted in a controlled environment, there were constraints on the experiments. one of these is the timing tool used. for the first two experiments, a stopwatch was used. it wasn’t till the third experiment that a more precise timing tool was used, a photogate. by using the stopwatch, the timing measurements could have been inaccurate. also, we were only able to test string length to an extent. if we were able to test a longer string length, we would find that the pendulum eventually would reach terminal velocity and no longer show a relationship between string length and pendulum period. because of this fact, we only tested small string lengths. because of the errors discussed, the claims stated in this experiment may not apply to all pendulums. the restrictions in string length and timing make this experiment and its conclusions not generalizable to all pendulums.

	
