conclusion:
These three experiments helped us to answer our initial research question which was: what factors affect the period of a pendulum? Experiment 1 allowed us to determine what factor can cause the period of the pendulum to either increase or decrease. Looking back to graph 1, the data does not have a linear relation, and for this reason the mass of the suspended object can be eliminated as a factor that affects the period of a pendulum. The same can be said for the data that is presented on graph 2. The data also shows no linear relation, thus allowing the angle of release from equilibrium to also be eliminated as a factor that affects the period of a pendulum. However, graph 3 shows a relationship that is linear, and thus the length of the pendulum string is the only factor that can increase or decrease the period of a pendulum. Experiment 2 allowed us to be able to test the accuracy of our results from experiment one as we were able to determine uncertainty from our measurements in experiment 1. In experiment 2, the period from each trial was calculated by counting the number of swings of the pendulum for 15 seconds and then taking that number and dividing 15 by it. This allowed us to find the average period of a pendulum with a string length of 50 centimeters to be about 1.43 seconds. Experiment 2 allowed us to conclude that the patterns between the independent and dependent variable still hold true. Experiment three allowed us to conduct more accurate trials as a photogate was used to record time in place of a stopwatch. In this experiment, trials were conducted using different string lengths, but a constant suspended mass and angle of release were used, as can be seen in table 8. The data collected from this experiment can be found in graph 4, and the trendline showing the relationship of the data can also be seen. A power trendline, like what is in graph 4, best shows the accuracy of the relationship of the data and the value of R^2 being one shows that there is a strong relationship between the length of string and the period of the pendulum. However, experiment 3 revealed that the relationship is nonlinear, contrary to the findings in experiment 1.
	The theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is  , where T is the period, L is the length of string, and g is the acceleration due to gravity. Our data fits with this model in the fact that they both represent the period as some sort of power to the length of the string. Graph 4 shows a relationship that is nonlinear, and the theoretical model would also yield results that are nonlinear. Our model was also similar in the fact that the mass suspended and angle of release find no place within the model. This follows the data from graphs 1 and 2 that fail to show any relation between the mass suspended and the angle of release, respectively. However, when trying to solve for actual periods of a different pendulum, the theoretical model proved to be about 42.9 percent more accurate than the derived model. The limited nature of these experiments did not allow the affect of gravity to be observed on the pendulum, nor did it consider the circular motion associated with a pendulum, thus the derived model lacks the accuracy of the theoretical model. 
	Error could have come into these experiments in several different forms. The main systematic error that could have occurred in the experiment is not measuring to the center of the length of string to the center of the mass. Several random errors could have factored into the results of the experiment, and one of these errors could have been truncating the pendulum swing when recording times for a period. Another random error that could occur would be in the form of the pendulum having ellipsoidal or otherwise imperfect swings. The final random error could have come from human reaction time when starting or stopping the stopwatch to record the periods of the pendulum. In general, random and systematic errors can be reduced by conducting multiple trials to find an average result. They can also be reduced by improving the overall consistency of the experiment, meaning all measurements and trial are recorded and conducted in the same way. The equipment could be improved my mounting a protractor to the actual pendulum assembly that way the protractor is guaranteed to be in the same place when setting the angle of release, and thus decreasing the chance for a random error. Experiment 3 also allowed the chance for random error in human reaction time to be removed as the use of the photogate removed the need for a stopwatch and someone to run it. In future trials, a fully automated setup that has a mechanically controlled release and computer-controlled timing would allow the removal of random errors that stem from human involvement.
	The experiment does have constraints that could limit its application to pendulums in general. While these experiments do show what factor affects the period of a pendulum for small swings, the experiment does not create a highly accurate mathematical model for calculating the period of a pendulum. This is due to what was discussed earlier with the experiment not considering the effect of different forces of gravity on a pendulum. The experiment also can not be looked at to find factors affecting the period of any pendulum. The experiments were useful for observing the nature of pendulum with small swings, however these same findings can not be applied to pendulums with larger swings. The amount of human involvement in the experiment also limited the ability to yield highly accurate results, even if the results yielded the expected relationships and trends. 