discussion and conclusion:
the acceleration of a system changes when the applied force changes. when the applied force changes or the total hanging weight changes while keeping the mass of the system constant the acceleration of the system will change depending on the force of the hanging weight. this experiment addresses the research question because we were testing the varying hanging masses attached to a string pulled over a pulley that was an accelerometer, then attached to a sliding (frictionless) cart. this set up allowed us to test the varying magnitude of force and how it affected the acceleration of the system. with this we can claim that when you increase the hanging mass or increase the applied forces the acceleration will also increase.  with running multiple tests, we were able to see that there was a correlation between the applied force and the acceleration of the system resulting from this force. we found it to be a positive linear relationship. as the applied force increased so did the acceleration and as the applied force decreased the acceleration did as well. when we graphed our data, this conformed our prediction by showing us the linear positive sloping line. from our data we got a line of best fit equation to be $y=5.0471 x + 0.01$ this means for every 1 newton of force added the acceleration will increase by 5m/s2 when we graphed this and took into account the error of measurements into the graph by inserting error bars we found that the error bars were too small to be seen meaning that the graph and data we got were reliable and didn’t have the chance to be faulty because of error bar overlap making our conclusion that the force effects the acceleration invalid. 
we can verify our results with another group who did the same experiment and had a similar experimental set up and used similar equipment. with their data you can see when graphed it would create a linear line which means that the correlation of the force applied, and the acceleration would affect each other. so, they got the equation of their graph to be $y=4.9007 x - 0.009$ this equation is very similar to the one we got in our graph from our data. a slope of very close to 5 and y intercept close to 0. this confirms that for every newton the acceleration will change by 5 meters per second squared. only difference is their y intercept value was negative and ours was positive. 
to test our results further we can compare to another group. this group also got data that proves the relation ship of the applied force to acceleration. they also got a graph that had a linear relationship. their equation for the graph of their data comes to be $y=5.0659 x - 0.0637$. again, similar to our equation of a slope of 5 and y intercept of close to zero. as the applied force increased their acceleration increased as well. the only difference is they got a negative y intercept value and ours was positive
comparing to these two groups we can see that their data further supports the data we collected in our lab experiment. the only difference between is that they both got negative y intercept values  and we got a positive one. however the y intercept values were very close to zero so i feel that the negative or positive doesn’t matter just as long as the value is close to or zero. 
$a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$ 
$a= \frac{m_h g}{m_h + m_c}$       where m_h  is hanging mass and mc is mass of cart
so basically, this is saying the force divided by the systems mass will give you the theoretical acceleration. 
the theoretical equation supports the mathematical model. because when you plug in the force for the theoretical model and divide it by the mass of the system you get close to the acceleration of the data we collected. however, its isn’t perfect because of possible errors and friction that wasn’t considered when preforming the experiment. also our data fit the linear model very well with an r2 value of .9972 and you can see that both equations are in $y=m x+b$ form the formula for a linear equation there is just no b or b is zero theoretically but, in our experiment, we have external forces so that’s why we have a b. this further supports our mathematical equation we got from the experiment. 
enhanced theoretical equation. 
$a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$
this equation is like the original but considers external forces, so it supports our equation more because it will take into the account the external forces acting on the system rather than the first equation assuming nothing else is acting on the system only the force of gravity on the hanging mass. possible external forces acting on the system would be wind resistance and friction. this also is a linear equation in the $y=m x+b$ just like the equation we obtained from our data. the +b part is just the external forces acting on the cart and, in our case, ours is positive so that might mean that our track isn’t level and sloped more down giving an extra positive force in addition to the force on the hanging mass. 
if there were a scenario of a heavy string connecting the hanging weight to the cart 
so if this were the case as the weight of the hanging mass pulling more and more string over the pulley as the cart gets closer to the pulley the more string would over the end of the hanging weight. and since the string is heavy the closer the cart gets to the pulley the more string is over the hanging weight increasing the mass and therefore increasing the force applied to the hanging mass which then would gradually increase the acceleration. so the relationship would be exponential. because over time the force will be increasing gradually then more rapidly as more rope is over the hanging mass. meaning the acceleration will start out gradually increasing then increasing more rapidly. making the cure shaped graph. 
there wasn’t much random error in this experiment mainly systematic. one random error might be accidently bumping the cart forward as you release it. or not having the air pump up to full rpm creating the simulated frictionless track. these errors however could be reduced or weeded out by running multiple tests and averaging the data for all the tests. the more data the more accurate the results minimizing the random error. 
systematic errors could include not having the triple beam balance calibrated correctly causing your masses to either be too much or to little. this would affect the force and give inaccurate data. another could be your track you run the sled down could not be level this could add to the force in a negative or positively. another systematic error is the friction off the track even though is minimized is still there and isn’t considered in the data. and the string not being completely weightless will cause a constant variation in the acceleration as described above.
these errors could be eliminated by practicing proper technique and making sure lab equipment is calibrated properly. 
some constraints for this experiment is that the track has to be level. if the track isn’t level it will cause data to be misleading. because the slight incline will will have a positive or negative force acting on the cart either hindering its movement or give it a positive force helping it down the track slanting down. the cart will have to work against gravity if its slanted up and gravity will work on the cart if slanting down. 
the string has no mass. with a string with some given mass will affect your results causing the data recorded for acceleration to not be true to its actual value. because as more string goes towards the side of the hanging mass this will increase the force therefore changing the acceleration throughout the test giving the acceleration an exponential graph.