discussion:
picture 2.00: data presented on october 4th, 2018 by group three. further evaluation occurs in discussion. 

how does a change in applied forces of our system alter the acceleration of the cart? the lab was designed to examine the effects of hanging mass on the acceleration of the cart on a horizontal plane. after reviewing data points from three total groups the hypothesis was proved correct, as the hanging mass or applied forces increased, the acceleration increased proportionally. this can be confirmed by referencing graph 1.00. the graph plots acceleration versus applied forces because the raw hanging mass shown in the first column of data table 1.00 does not indicate all forces acting on the cart. the hanging mass is being acted upon by the power of gravity in the y-direction, so the applied forces data points indicate the raw mass multiplied by the constant force of gravity. this constant force of gravity and mass provides tension to the string causing an increase of tension on the string and in the system. so as each bobber is shifted from the cart to the string, the tension of the string increases by a rate of one bobber's mass. the increase in acceleration is not due directly to the mass itself placed on the string, but the overall tension applied to the string by the hanging mass. so as the tension in the x and y-direction is increased on the string attached to the cart so does the acceleration. it is important to note that the string used to connect the hanging mass to the cart must register as zero mass as it is not accounted for within the system and would alter forces applied to the vehicle. for example, if the string had a significant mass the overall tension on the cart would alter due to a change in hanging mass as the cart moved closer to the final position. as more string rolled over the pully, the applied forces and hanging mass would increase making the prediction of acceleration much more difficult. 

graph 1.00 displays the overall trend discussed above including the uncertainty of each recorded data point in column three labeled standard deviation of data table 1.00.  the error bars are non-visible on the graph due to the minuscule value calculated by data studio software used for recording acceleration. the figure and best fit linear line applied in excel gave us a mathematical model which could be used to examine and calculate necessary masses for acceleration or vice versa. the experimental model derived was $y=0.0042 x - 0.081$ which differs from our theoretical model of $f=m a$ and our advanced theoretical model $a= c1 f +c2$. instead, we are given two constant values with an additional aspect of subtraction. the subtraction present indicates forces acting against the overall systems movement. this could mean errors in the experiment and forces which were not compensated for in the calculations. the most likely scenario is friction of the track which was assumed to be zero, resistance applied to the cart in motion, which could have been caused by an unlevel track. or possibly uncertainties occurring during data collection, though most of which were accounted for by using automatic timers and one individual conducting the experiment while the other recorded data points. further trials would be needed to fully identify the discrepancies. 

examination of multiple groups data was conducted to further strength resolve and generalization of data, but data presented laid-forth further questions and concerns. data from the first group presented showed the same trend of proportional increase of acceleration as hanging mass and applied forces increased and introduced an advanced experimental equation identical to that of the theoretical variety as shown in picture 1.00 of data and figures section.  their value for constant 1(c1) was .0061 and a positive value for c2 of .1114.  the difference in constant one is negligible while the second constant has a substantial deviation from what was present from our research (group 1, 2018). examination of group three's data further muddies the discussion as their advanced theoretical equation lacked a second constant value entirely, and their data values do not show a wholly proportional relationship between hanging mass and acceleration. as shown in picture 2.00 their fourth data point for acceleration decreases even with the increase in hanging mass and applied forces (group 3, 2018). the presentation of data by two additional groups does not strengthen or weaken the relationship between acceleration or mass but ultimately provides further questions and research opportunities. 

there is a direct and proportional relationship between the overall acceleration of the cart and the applied forces created by hanging mass and the acting gravity on that mass. as predicted by the hypothesis before experimentation, as the hanging mass increases so does the acceleration of the cart. this was further supported by the research presented by group one in our laboratory setting and by the calculation conducted on the final day of experimentation was conducted to calculate the necessary hanging mass needed to reach .45 m/s2 acceleration on a cart. the constants pulled from the advanced theoretical equation allowed researchers to determine a mass of 16.6 grams to achieve a cart acceleration of .489 m/s2. the data determined through experimentation agrees with newton's second law examining mass and acceleration.