discussion and conclusion

	throughout this two-week experiment, our group tested several variables that could affect the acceleration of our pulley system that was placed on a nearly frictionless surface. the question that our research was trying to answer was, “how does the applied force impact the acceleration of the system?” throughout the two weeks, we tested two different sized carts with hanging forces (applied force) of different masses to test whether more applied force would accelerate our systems and whether the acceleration was affected by larger or smaller systems. we were also given a mathematical challenge in week two to make our large cart system reach a specific acceleration by determining what the hanging force had to be to make the cart system reach that acceleration. as we tested our hypothesis, we kept the total mass of the system the same. the iv of hanging force is what we would change to determine an increase or a decrease in system acceleration. 

	as indicated by our own graph and the graphs of groups 1 and 6, there is a direct correlation between increased hanging force (n) and increased acceleration. our slopes (which is determined to be velocity) are increasing in a positive direction along the x and y axis and the coordinate points along the slope are the measured accelerations in comparison to the hanging force. we can see that as the hanging force in n increases, the acceleration in m/s2 also increases. the error bars in our graph are too small to be seen and as such we can view the errors as being negligible. since our points are far enough apart that there is no overlap, we can assume that our acceleration is always increasing when applied force is increased as well. we are unable to find any discrepancies between our group and groups 1 and 6. 

	during part 2 of our experiment we were given the following challenge to complete is 

	the theoretical equation $f=m_{sys} a$ shows us that the acceleration is equal to the applied force divided by the mass of the system. as an example, i will plug in the numbers from our groups first trial. $\frac{1.96 m}{22}=\frac{f}{186.5}$. this makes our force equal to 366 newtons. this is different from the newton value that we have in our table 1. this error could be a contribution of several things such as the unknown amount of friction on the track (though it is minimal), the uncertainty error provided by data studio (provided in the column of table 1), human error (measuring the system mass, incorrect calculation) and even air resistance. in combination, all these errors could contribute to incorrect calculations. the theoretical mathematical model $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$ would be a more fitting mathematical model that would take some of the errors mentioned previously into consideration. two of the external forces that can be a contribution to this theoretical mathematical model is friction and air resistance. the inclusion of these forces into our calculations would allow our theoretical calculations to be closer to our actual data that was obtained through the data studio software that we were using. however, the only way that we would be able to minimize the human error would be to do more trials, triple check our calculations of mass (or even get a scale that would give us even more reduced error) for the system and for the hanging force. one final error that we had not accounted for in our second week was not adding 0.8 grams of mass to the entire system even though we had added it in addition to the hanging force. this tiny amount could have significantly thrown off our calculations. 

	we were also given a scenario in which the string on the pulley system was thicker/heavier. given that this would add to the mass of the system, i predict that a heavier string would increase the acceleration of the system as a heavier string would be a part of the mass of the hanging force. this would cause the acceleration to increase either minimally or significantly depending on how heavy/ thick the string is. the string could have been thin but made with a heavier material or it could have been made of the same material, just thicker. both scenarios could contribute to higher acceleration rates. 

	some constraints that are part of this experiment are our inability to achieve a completely frictionless surface as well as our current inability to perform this experiment in a vacuum. these two constraints would have contributed tiny numbers that could have had an impact on our calculations and because we do not know how much they impact our numbers, we have no way of adding them into our calculations. 

	
