discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of the lab was to determine how changing the force applied affects the acceleration of the cart, we stated that the increasing the force applied will increase the acceleration. the test we performed in our experiments proved what we hypothesized, with our experimental model being $y=0.0489 x - 0.0424$ with x being force applied and y being acceleration. there are many places for these experiments to have errors, one could have been a not level ramp, another could have been from not even air flow on the track and items on the track which would cause friction. these could be fixed by using a new string and make sure no knots are in the string, cleaning the ramp and using an level to make sure the track is level, and we could test the airflow but we would need some equipment we did not have to test this. the theoretical equation $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$ does and does not agree with our experimental model, if there were no other forces than the hanging mass this would be our experimental model not including the errors. the enhanced theoretical model does match up with our experimental model with the enhanced theoretical model being next, it was predicted that the heavier the mass of the pendulum, the shorter the period and this was shown to be false as well. changing the mass did not result in significant changes in the period, as demonstrated by the overlapping error bars and lack of a specific trend in figure 2. again, applying the equivalency criterion would just result in more overlap of the error bars so, 95% of the values for period would still lie within the uncertainty range. we seem to have an outlier at $x=70$ but its presence does not change the lack of relationship between mass of pendulum and period. 
, this matches up because it factors in the other external forces. the constraints that could make our result general is the ramp being a “frictionless” surface and this is not 100% true because we cannot always have a frictionless surface and other people who want to test this might not have the ability to have a close to frictionless surface. 
the model of this group agrees with the model we came up with, this is because they also have external forces affecting their acceleration.
the model of this group also agrees with the model we came up with, this is because they also have external forces affecting their acceleration.