discussion and conclusion



	in this experiment, we were looking to see what the correlation was between the iv’s of length of string, mass of the object and angle of release would be on the dv of period time. the first experiment tested the iv of mass. the cv were length of string and angle of release. after the data was recorded from this experiment we found that the mass of an object does not have a significant effect on the period time. if you look at the graph from experiment one you can see that the error bars overlap each other. this tells me that the difference between the two means is not statistically significant (p>0.05). the uncertainty (.007) and the standard deviation (.0737) where low indicating that there was little systematic or random error in the experiment. however, there was no significant change between the iv mass and the dv period time. the 2nd experiment tested the iv of string length. the cv were mass of the object and the angle of release. after the data, had been collected from this experiment we found that string length does in fact effect the period time. we learned that when string length is increased then period time will increase and when string length is decreased then period time will decrease. if you look at the graph for experiment 2 you can see that the error bars do not overlap. also, the standard deviation for this experiment was .731 which was much higher than the first experiment. this tells me that the period time measurements were more spread out from the mean or expected value. so, in other words, the length of the string did have an effect on period time because none of the measurements were super close to the expected value. the 3rd experiment tested the iv of the angle of release. the cv were mass of the object and the length of the string. after the data was recorded for this experiment we can conclude that angle of release does not have a significant effect on period time. if you look at the graph for experiment 3 you can see that the error bars do overlap indication that the difference between the two means is not statistically significant (p>0.05). the graph is zoomed in extremely close making it look like there is a significant difference between the change of angle to the period time. however, if you look at the y-axis or the table for this experiment you can see that the period times are almost all within a 1 second difference. in experiment 4 the iv tested was string length. the difference in this experiment compared to experiment 2 was that we used a photogate machine to record the period time as opposed to a stop watch. after collecting the data, we confirmed that string length does in fact effect period time. by looking at the graph for this experiment you can see a linear increase on period time as the length of string increased. you also can tell that all the points are touching the trend line. this just confirms that there is a linear correlation between the two variables. also, the uncertainty in this experiment was .001. compared to the uncertainty in experiment 2 which was .07. as you can see the photogate machine used in experiment 4 was much more accurate and precise then the stop watch used in experiment 2. some of the systematic errors that could have occurred in experiments 1-3 would have been human reaction time in hitting the stop watch when a full swing was complete. the stop watch not stopping exactly when you press the stop button. some random errors could have occurred to like a student bumping into the desk when the object was in motion. to avoid random errors, you need to pay attention to everything that is happening during the experiment. if you notice something happen that could have effected your period time, then discard that trial and test again. as for systematic errors, we used the photogate machine to eliminate the systematical errors that come with using a stop watch. some constraints that were in this experiment was time. to have the most accurate data you need more data. because we were limited on time we could not do as many trails. another constraint would be the equipment used. the stand that held the string was connected to a table. in an ideal world, you would not want the stand to be on an object that could potentially move if bumped into. also, we could have had more accurate equipment like an analytic scale as opposed to mechanical scale. lastly, if you look at the theoretical equation which is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ is supposed to be able to give you the answer to period time. this equation could not be used in our experiment though because we did not have a measurement for gravity (g).