discussion & conclusion

	throughout this experiment, the effects of three different independent variables on a pendulum were investigated to see which one would have an impact on the period. the period of the pendulum was the dependent variable of the experiment. the three independent variables tested were the mass on the pendulum, the length of the string holding the pendulum, and the angle at which the pendulum was released. 

when the mass was tested as the independent variable, there was not much of a relationship between it and the period of the pendulum. when looking at table 4 and figure 1, it can be concluded that the period is mostly consistent no matter the mass on the pendulum. there is a slight positive correlation shown in the trendline in the graph, but when the error bars represent 2σ or 2 standard deviations, we can be 95% confident that there is no correlation between the mass and period of the pendulum. this proves the hypothesis that states that there is no relationship between the mass on a pendulum and its period, so to answer the research question, the mass on a pendulum has no impact on the period of a pendulum. 

when the string length was tested as the independent variable, there was a positive relationship between it and the period of the pendulum. when looking at table 5 and figure 2, it can be concluded that the period is affected by the length of string on the pendulum. there is a positive correlation shown in the trendline in the graph, and when the error bars represent 2σ or 2 standard deviations, we can be 95% confident that there is a correlation between the string length and period of the pendulum. this proves the hypothesis that states that there is a relationship between the length of string on a pendulum and its period. in relation to the research question, the length of string on a pendulum does have impact on the period of a pendulum.

when the angle of release was tested as the independent variable, there was a positive relationship between it and the period of the pendulum, but there should not be. when looking at table 6 and figure 3, it can be concluded that the period is affected by the angle of release on the pendulum. there is a positive correlation shown in the trendline in the graph, but when the error bars represent 1σ or 1 standard deviation, we can be 98% confident that there is no correlation between the angle of release and period of the pendulum. this proves the hypothesis that states that there is no relationship between the angle of release on a pendulum and its period, so to answer the research question, there is no relationship between angle of release and period of a pendulum.

the theoretical equation for the period of the pendulum is represented by $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. the mathematical model derived from our data is $y=1.05 x^{0.302}$. when using the theoretical equation, t comes out to be equal to 1.419 seconds, but when using the mathematical model derived from our data, it comes out to be equal to 6.8593. due to the difference in calculations, it can be concluded that we were not able to come up with the full model using our data.

this could be due to several random and systematic errors within our data or constraints on our data. random errors that could be present in the data are the inconsistency in time when using a stopwatch to time the period and fluctuations in angle of release since the pendulum was held up by the experimenter for each trial. the error for inconsistency in time was reduced by using multiple stopwatches to measure the time of the period, and the average of the times were taken and recorded. the fluctuations in angle of release could be reduced by setting the pendulum on something that raises it to the desired angle to reduce human error. systematic errors that could be present in the data are that the triple beam balance used to weigh the masses could have been zero-ed incorrectly and adding mass on the pendulum could have stretched the string more which could cause fluctuations in string length. the error from the triple beam balance could be reduced by accounting for the difference in all measurements when the error in the measurement is known. the error from the string length could be reduced by measuring the string length between every trial when adding weight and accounting for the difference. one major constraint in this lab that could cause error are trial constraints due to time. because of time, we were only able to conduct a about 5 trials per experiment. since there is not that many trials, there is a small spread which could cause the generalizations made from our results to be inaccurate compared to if we had the time to do more trials.

after conducting the experiment, the research question was able to be answered. based of the data, it can be concluded that there is a relationship between the length of string and the period of a pendulum. as the string length increases, the period of the pendulum increases. the mass on the pendulum and the angle of release do not have as much of an impact on the period. the period mostly stays consistent no matter the mass on the pendulum or the angle of release.