discussion and conclusion:

the research question that is being investigated in this lab is what factors that can impact the period of a pendulum for small swing. the factors that were identified are length of the string, mass on the string, and the angle of release. 

in the first experiment, angle and string length were the control variables which means they were constant as shown in table 1. the mass on the string was changed (independent variable). the period of the pendulum swing was measured 5 times with 5 different masses. then, the period values were plotted as shown in figure 1(the period average vs. mass). what was observed from this experiment that changing the mass on the string doesn’t affect the period of the pendulum.

in the second experiment, mass and string length were the control variables which means they were constant as shown in table 2. the angle of release was changed (independent variable). the period of the pendulum swing was measured 5 times with 5 different angles. the angle was measured from the vertical of the string at rest, to the point of release at the beginning of each swing. again, the period values were plotted as shown in figure 2 (the period average vs. angle). what was observed from this experiment is that changing the angle of release can influence the period of the pendulum. 

in the third experiment, mass on the string and angle of release were the control variables which means they were kept constant as shown in table 3. the length of string was changed for 5 times (independent variable). the period of the pendulum swing was measured 5 times with 5 different lengths. then, it was plotted in the same manner as in the previous two experiments as shown in figure 3. what was observed from this experiment is that when increasing the length of the string, the period of the pendulum also increases. the trend follows that of . according to the data in figure 3, the trend is almost linear. 

the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is  . the gravity that influenced the period of a pendulum was not tested. therefore, the theoretical model was not determined completely from the data collected. the data shows that mass did not affect the period. length and angle did affect the period, but the angle had to be above 15 degrees. the length did not have a restricting range following a  trend. 

some possible presence of random error such as incorrect time measurements, incorrect length of string measurements, and the pendulum might not pursue a straight path. in addition, some possible presence of systematic error such as improper measurements in either the length of the string, the angle of release, and the mass on the string. what could be done in the future to reduce the errors is using more timers and timing over a longer time interval. also, measuring string length with the same mass hooked on every time, eliminating any variance due to the stretch, and also doing more than 1 trial for each factor to reduce the random error. 

what was realized after doing the three experiments is that the data collected cannot be used to generalize how the pendulum act for all swings. instead, it can be used to examine how the pendulum acts in small swings. the constraint that may limit the generalizability of the experiment results is the air resistance. air resistance can affect the period of the pendulum.