discussion and conclusion:



what factors impact the period of the pendulum is what is being investigated in this lab. specifically, how the length of a string influences how long it takes for a pendulum to complete one period. we tested this experiment again because it was proven that the length of the string was the main factor that impacted the pendulum periods. this is because the range of the length was a 0.6 second difference while the weight had a 0.47 second difference and the angle dropped had a 0.29 second difference. 
experiment one helped influence the relationship between the length of the string and the period of a pendulum swing because it was proven through the trials that the longer the length of the string, the longer it took the pendulum to complete one period. therefore, our prediction was accepted. by looking at table one, each time the length increased by 10 cm the time it took to complete one swing took longer. by looking at graph one, there is a positive slope correlation with the length of the string and the time it took to complete one swing as well. the error bars resulted on graph one demonstrates how precise our data was to the actual value. since the error bars in graph one was small, that determines that the data is clumped around each other. this is proven from data table one, the values of the time in seconds were very close to one another. also, since the error bars overlap but not as much as graphs two and three signifies that the differences between the trials are probably not statistically significant. 
experiment two helped influence the relationship between the angle of the pendulum dropped and the period of the pendulum because it was proven through the trials that the greater the angle dropped, the longer the pendulum period. therefore, our prediction was accepted. by looking at table two each time the angle of the drop increased, the longer it took the pendulum to complete one swing. by looking at graph two, there is a positive slope correlation with the angle dropped and the time it took for the pendulum to complete one swing as well. since the error bars in graph two was longer than graph one but smaller than graph three, that demonstrates that the data is still fairly clumped together. this is proven by looking at data table two, the values in time in seconds were not even a second apart from the previous trial. the error bars resulted signify overlapping between them, this demonstrates that the trials are not statistically significant. 

experiment three helped influence the relationship between the weight added on a pendulum and the period of the pendulum because it was proven through the trials that the heavier the ball, the shorter the period of the pendulum. therefore, our predication was accepted. by looking at table three, it is proven that as more weight was added the quicker it took the pendulum to complete one swing. by looking at graph three there is a negative slope correlation between the weight added on the pendulum and the time it took the pendulum to complete one swing. the error bars in graph three are much longer than the error bars in graphs one and two. this is because the data collected with the time was not clumped together from previous trials. the error bars overlapping signify that the trials are not statistically significant. 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is   $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$



our data fits with this model because with the graphical relationship of $y=x^2$ the value we calculated was close to the actual value of 0.5. we calculated it to be 0.4223. as well as the r value we calculated was close to the actual value of 1. we calculated it to be 0.9984. as a result of both these values being close to their actual values, we can determine that our data collected for the length of the string fits the theoretical mathematical model. therefore, from using the mathematical model we can conclude that the other two factors not tested, the mass and weight had no effect on the pendulum swing and were not included into the equation. 
random errors that were present includes is  incorrectly measuring the time on the stopwatch when rounding the decimals, only experimented with one trial which leads to inaccurate data, as well as the weights added on pendulum were not accurately measured before use. systematic errors that were present includes is  not dropping the pendulum at the exact angle, not starting/ stopping the stopwatch at the exact point, and not accurately measuring the timer on the stopwatch when rounding the decimals. we could have performed more trials which would lead to more accurate results as well as taking measurements more precisely could lead to more exact data points. 
constraints in this experiment could include that the longest length of the string we tested was 180cm therefore our mathematical model is only derived to a pendulum length of no longer than 180cm.