Discussion/ Conclusion 
The goal of this experiment was to discover how acceleration would change when applied force is changed. Looking at Figure 1, one can see a positive correlation between acceleration and applied force. This means that as hanging force increases, acceleration also increases. The independent variable in this experiment was found by multiplying the mass of the bobbers hanging by the slope found during that particular trial. The dependent variable was the slope of the data, which represents the acceleration. Small error bars were added, both vertically and horizontally, to Figure 1. This accounts for the uncertainties found in the data collected. According to Group 1, their data supports my group’s results and conclusions. Looking at the data in Figure 2, one can see that as their number of hanging bobbers increased the acceleration also increased. However, the data from Group 6 did not support my group’s results as strongly. Looking at the data in Figure 3, one can see that they concluded the following is  as mass increases, acceleration also increases. This is incorrect and should have opposite correlations. 


The correct theoretical equation is $f= m a$. The experimental mathematical model is $y=0.0052 x-0.0697$. This experimental model supports the theoretical equation because they are similar. $a= \frac{f}{m}$. This mathematical model shows that if the mass of the system increases, the force would also increase. This supports the theoretical model. If a heavy string was used, this data would have to be taken into account when conducting this experiment. A heavy string would increase the hanging mass, thus decreasing the acceleration. 
Some random errors in this experiment are the uncertainty of the scale, computer, and Datastudio. Taking multiple trials can reduce these errors and runs of each data set. Some constraints include friction and air resistance. For this experiment these constraints were considered negligible. Generally they would affect the outcomes, but the theoretical equation does not take these into account. 