discussion 



	the purpose of this experiment was to determine if the force acting on a system will affect the acceleration of the system. based on the theoretical model, $a=\frac{f_g-f_f}{m_s}$, and table 1 and figure 1, it can be concluded that changing the force acting on a system does affect the acceleration of a system, proving the prediction was correct. table 1 proves this because the acceleration is different for every force that applied to the system. figure 1 also proves this statement because the graph shows a steady increase in acceleration as the force acting on the system is increased. this is an accurate conclusion because it follows newton’s second law; the force of an object is equal to the mass of the object times it’s acceleration. 


the results of group 1 and group 2 are shown in the photos above. our mathematical model was $a=4.1897 x+0.015$. group 1 had a mathematical model of $a= 4.486 x + 0.0234$, and group 2 had a mathematical model of $a=4.0483 x + 0.0536$. group 1 and group 2 supported our mathematical model in the way that all three groups had similar slopes. group 1 had a y-intercept closer to our y-intercept than group 2 did. both of these groups support the claim that the acceleration of a system is affected by the force acting on the system. 

the theoretical model and the mathematical model we obtained were quite similar. the slope of our model was relatively close to what the slope of the theoretical model should have been. we had a slope of 4.1897 and the slope of the theoretical model would have been 5.288. one difference between our model and the theoretical model was that we got a positive y-intercept instead of a negative y-intercept that the theoretical model has. they were the same in that they both have linear equations for the line of best fit for the graph. another force that was present which needs to be considered when comparing the theoretical model is the force of friction. however, the force of friction would only change the y-intercept of the equation, not the slope. the mass of the system shows up in the experimental model as the slope. the slope is 1/mass of the system. possible systematic errors that could impact the results would be if the data studio ran consistently higher or lower or, if the balance read consistently higher or lower. these would result in a single-sided error. if the string had an appreciable mass, it would affect the acceleration. the mass of the string would increase the force of gravity, resulting in an increase of acceleration. one constraint of this experiment is that the track the cart was on was not 100% frictionless. although we treated it as it was, there was still some friction that was present that would only affect the y-intercept of the graph. (fg/ms)-(ff/ms)