discussion and conclusion: 

the original research question was as stated, how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes? the relationship found between acceleration and force reports a linear correlating trend in which acceleration increases as force due to hanging mass increases. this relationship can be seen visually by figure 1. and algebraically reviewed through the mathematical model created through the experiment, $y = 0.0038 x + 0.0717$ r^2 is 0.973. the error bars incorporated relay the uncertainty reported in the measurements. however, these were virtually non-viewable because of the small values of uncertainties. 

two other group’s data were analyzed as a method for achieving more reliable results. group 6 conducted their investigation in a similar method. their original hypothesis was nearly identical to the hypothesis of this report. they concluded, as visible by their complete figure, acceleration increased as the force applied increased, finding a linear correlation between the two variables. this can be seen in figure 2 above. a second group, research group #2 also had an equivalent research hypothesis and conclusive statement, that the acceleration increased if the applied force increased. both of these groups supported the results and conclusion made in this research, that a positive linear trend exists between applied force and acceleration. 

the theoretical model for this linear relationship is explained by the equation $f=m a$. in comparison to the mathematical model, this makes sense. if a constant mass of 10g is used for example, and a force of 50 and 100 n is compared. the acceleration would be higher for the force with 100 n, supporting our earlier conclusion about this trend. air resistance as well as friction are other forces that may have impacted the experimental model. this experiment was not performed in a vacuum, so air resistance could have affected the acceleration. friction varies with different surfaces, so this also could have impacted the overall acceleration of the system. both forces would be considered as constraints for the experiment as a whole and the experimental model that do not exist in the theoretical model, $f=m a$. thus, in such cases, a more enhanced model such as $a=\frac{f+f_{air}+f_{friction}}{m_{sys}}$ may be more suitable in taking to account such forces. in the experimental model mass shows up in the equation $f=m a$ to figure out the force. also, the relationship of mass on force and acceleration is on display when we change the weight, and then have a different acceleration due to that change in the variable.

 in a scenario where a heavy string connected to the cart was used, the cart would undergo a uniform acceleration. this is due to the bobbers still having an impact on the overall hanging mass which would change the force. however, with the use of a heavier string, the cart would not accelerate as fast and tension is greater. similarly, if a virtually non-massless string were used, acceleration of the car would be uniformly higher. an uncalibrated balance would be a systematic error that could impact the results because an incorrect force would be calculated. another systematic error would be if the rotary motion detector was broken or uncalibrated. this would result in the incorrect accelerations being recorded. 

a part of the experiment included replicating these results onto a bigger target to test our concluding statement about the correlation between acceleration and applied force. given a red cart object, a target acceleration was given. this value was 0.52m/s^2. a weight for the red cart was calculated to be 296.5 +/- 0.05g (the uncertainty calculated through the smallest marked increment and dividing the value by 2). the mass needed in addition was calculated through a series of steps with the resulting value yielding 16.61g, with a force of 117.97. the mathematical equation collected in part was useful in determining such values. the acceleration obtained in lab was 0.48 m/s^2, just short of target value. however, the exact target value was difficult to obtain because the mathematical model did not take into account possible outer factors such as friction or air resistance stated earlier. the value was within statistical significance in accordance to a given uncertainty value (+/- .100m/s^2). thus, following the equation better confirms the reliability and validity in its significance and proves to be another defense for the linear trend correlation between acceleration and applied force.