discussion and conclusion:

	the purpose of these experiments are to see what independent variables will affect the period of a swinging pendulum. in the first experiment, the mass of the bob at the end of the pendulum was changed to see what affect it would have on the period of the swing. the mass of the bob at the end of the pendulum does not seem to make any relevant change on the period of the swing. according to graph 1, a slight negative slope is depicted indicating that a correlation between mass and period exists. even though a negative slope is observed, the trendline is very close to zero determining that there is no correlation between mass and period. when the mass of the bob is increased, the period observed exhibits no change.

	the second experiment was performed to identify any correlation between the length of the string and the period of the swing. in contrast to the first experiment a definite positive slope is observed in graph 2. the slope of the trendline confirms that there is indeed a correlation between length of string and period observed. since the slope is in the positive direction, it can be said that there is a positive correlation between the length of string and the period observed. when the string length is increased, the period will also increase.

	the third experiment was completed to recognize correlations between the angle of release and the period of the swing. similarly to the second experiment, a positive slope is observed in graph 3. although the slope appears to be a steep positive line, the trendline has a slope very close to zero. this horizontal slope indicates that there is no correlation between the angle of release and the period observed. when the angle of release is increased, the period observed does not change.

	the theoretical mathematical model for a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ where t is the period, l is the length of the string, and g is gravity. graph 4 was constructed using a photogate instead of people to collect the time per period. using the photogate makes the times collected much more accurate. the purpose of constructing graph 4 is to compare the slope of its trendline to that of the actual mathematical model. the equation of the trendline from graph 4 is $y=1.5179 x^{0.1647}$. although this equation looks very different from the given model, times per period calculated from each equation are quite close. using the photogate, a power equation was determined that is close to the given period equation. once a photogate was used to collect data, an equation very close to the actual equation was determined and the experiment supports the theoretical model.

	throughout the execution of this lab, both systematic and random errors may have occurred. a few systematic errors that may have occurred in the lab are that the string lengths and the mass of the bob may not have been exact. some random errors that did occur during the lab were that the release point of the pendulum was not the same for each trial. another error was that the timer was not stopped and or started at the beginning and end of the period. the measurement of the time per period could be reduced if a photogate was used to measure the period of the pendulum instead of people using stopwatches. this would eliminate the error caused by the reaction time of a person. one way to reduce the error of the release point is to have a machine set up that would clamp the string at the exact release point each time. another way to reduce random error is to use more accurate tools when measuring constants in the experiment.

there were a few constraints due to the experimental design. first, the length of the pendulum had a max value. the maximum length of the string for the pendulum was around 1m. therefore, the mathematical model determined during the experiment is only relevant to lengths up to 1m. the results of a string length over 1m cannot be accurately extrapolated due to the constraints on the length of the string. another constraint would be that the mass could only go up to .25kg. although it was determined mass had no effect on the period of the pendulum, it can only be generalized that mass up to .25kg has no effect on the period. 

the experiments completed were successful in determining which variables effected the period of a pendulum. the angle of release and the mass of the bob were found to have no effect on the period while the length of string showed a positive correlation with the period of the pendulum.