conclusion:
This experiment tested the effects of mass on period length. In this experiment, the independent variable is mass, while the dependent variable is period length. The controlled variables are string length and angle of release, held at 28.81cm and 45° respectably. The hypothesis is, the period length is related to the mass of the pendulum. While we predict that increasing the mass will also increase the period length. During the experiment to prevent uncertainties, two lab members held stopwatches and recorded the period of each swing, then that time were then averaged for each trial. The measurement uncertainty for this experiment was 0.001 seconds.  The string length and angle and release was also remeasured each trial.  Looking at the results of the experiment, the mass vs period graph shows a flat curve, resembling a slope of zero. Besides the mass point of 90g, which seems to be an outlier and fall outside of the trend. The trend being supported by the line of confidence falling inside of the error bars of all the points besides the outlier. This slope tells us that the increasing mass doesn’t influence the dependent variable, being period length. So, from this we can confidently say that mass does not influence period length. This does not answer our research question since there is no correlation between mass and period length.

In the second experiment, string length was made the independent variable to look at the change in period length. The control variables were mass and angle of release, held at 50g and 45° respectably. The hypothesis is the period length is related to the string length. The prediction is increasing the string length increases the period. This experiment addressed the research question by making period of the pendulum the dependent variable and making the independent variable string length. During the experiment to prevent uncertainties, two lab members held stopwatches and recorded the period of each swing, then that time was then averaged for each trial. During the experiment to prevent uncertainties, two lab members held stopwatches and recorded the period of each swing, then that time were then averaged for each trial. The measurement uncertainty for this experiment was 0.001 seconds. The mass and angle and release were also remeasured each trial.  Looking at the graph the line of best fit slope resembled a positive linear function. While also there were no outliers with all the line of best fit falling within all the error bars. This meaning our data resembles the true values very closely. This positive power function slope slope shows that as the string length increase, so does the period. The ratio isn’t exactly one to one, however there is still a positive correlation, so we can confidently say that increasing the string length increases the period. Compared to the mass versus period length graph, where the slope was zero. Further supporting that mass doesn’t have an effect on period. This does answer our research question, since there is correlation between string length and period. We now know what affects period.
The experiment was then repeated on September 13th , 2018. However, during this attempt of this experiment the data was used to calculate the mathematical model. The procedures and errors are the same as the experiment attempted on August 30th , 2018. The only difference being the different string lengths and the constant values are varied a little. 

In the third experiment, angle of release was made the independent variable and period length was made the dependent variable. The experiment was not preformed due to time restraints; however, data was provided. In the experiment, the independent variable was the angle of release, and the dependent variable is period length. The control variables are the string length and mass of the pendulum, 90cm and 100g respectably. The hypothesis is, the angle of release is related to the period length. The prediction is increasing the angle of release will have no impact on the period length. During the experiment to prevent uncertainties, two lab members held stopwatches and recorded the period of each swing, then that time were then averaged for each trial. The measurement uncertainty for this experiment was 0.001 seconds. From the data it is shown that the there’s nearly zero slope line of best fit and with the line running through all the error bars. From this we can confidently say that angle of release has no impact on the period length. The line of best fit is a linear function as well. Compared to the mass versus period length graph, where the slope was zero. Further supporting that mass and angle of release don’t influence period. This does not answer our research question, since there is no correlation between angle of release and period length. We are unable to say that angle of release impacts period length.



Theoretical Model is   $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$
Mathematical Model is  $y =1.9958 x^{0.5065}$

Our data supports the theoretical model, since the using test points in both the theoretical model and mathematical model we obtained similar answers. The modeling we used for our data to find our function was a power function. This is because our data did not increase at a linear rate so an exponent was needed to fit the data points. Which fit the data very well, falling within the data bars. For the test point length of 0.5m, the theoretical model yielded the results of 1.42 seconds while the mathematical model yielded 1.40 seconds. Comparing these two, the mathematical model is within 2 standard deviations of the data meaning that it is very close to the theoretical value. When looking at how our calculated model fits in with the data. It for the experiment where the independent variable is string length. This calculated model would also work for the other functions and explains why their graphs contain a horizontal line of best fit. Since the function’s only variable is x (representing length), the other experiments have a constant string length so there for the inputted changing variable will increase along the x-axis, the y value or the period would not change since the string length is kept constant. 
There were errors present in our experiment. Both Systematic and random. Some examples of these are the timers not being in sync when recording the periods (random error), the pendulums could’ve been set to slightly wrong angles since they were done by humans not computers (random), and the string could’ve been stretched out from gravity over time resulting in an inaccurate measurement (systematic). Ways we tried to reduce these were, keeping all lab members repeating the same job. For example, there were the same two timers for all trials, same lab member measuring the string length and angle, and same lab member releasing the pendulum from the angle. Another way we lowered chances of error was testing the stop watches before the trials began with our smart phones.  