discussion/conclusion

in labs 1-3, the purpose was to figure out what affected the period of a pendulum. our research question was, “what impacts the period of a pendulum, in seconds, for small swings?” this was analyzed this by using three different independent variables to see how they affected the period of a pendulum. the first independent variable tested was the angle of release of the pendulum. after graphing our data, shown in graph 1, it is easy to see that there was no significant difference between release angle and period of a pendulum. this is because the slope is zero (horizontal line), which indicates that there is no significant difference between release angle and period of a pendulum. another indicator that our data was not statistically significant was that the r2 value of the line was almost zero. the second independent variable we tested was the mass of the pendulum. after graphing our data, shown in graph 2, it is easy to see that there was no significant difference between the mass of a pendulum and period of a pendulum. this is because the slope is zero (horizontal line), which indicates that there is no significant difference between mass of a pendulum and period of a pendulum. another indicator that our data was not statistically significant was that the r2 value of the line was almost zero. the third and final independent variable we tested was the length of the string. after graphing our data, shown in graph 3, it is easy to see there was a significant difference between length of string and period of a pendulum. this is because the slope is positive, which indicates a positive correlation between length of string and period of a pendulum. another indicator that our data was statistically significant was that the r2 value of the line was 0.947, very close to 1.0. 

the theoretical equation given to us was is  . the equation derived from graph 3 was $y=0.1424202 x$. the lengths were plugged into the equation and the experimental t-value obtained was similar to the theoretical t-value in the equation.  

throughout this experiment, systematic and random error occurred. a major random error encountered was rounding the stopwatch. this is random error because rounding could have produced a smaller or larger number than the actual period of the pendulum. this could have skewed our data. there were more systematic errors encountered than random errors. some of the systematic errors included, not stopping the stop watch at the true period, calibrating the incorrect length of string, and calibration of the scale. in the future, it would be beneficial and more effective to use better technology instead of humans to eliminate some of the human error. however, in lab 3- mathematical modeling, a photogate was used to measure the true period of the pendulum. this helped reduce some of the systematic error. one of the main constraints faced during this experiment was time. when time is readily available, the ability to gather more data is imminent so it could better fit the graph. more data could also decrease error.  
