conclusion:
the dependent variable was the period of the pendulum and the independent variables were the weight of the pendulum, the length of the string of the pendulum, and the angle the pendulum was dropped. The first variables we controlled were the length and angle and we chose the values to be 47 cm in length and a 45 degree drop angle. That left us with weight to be the independent variable. We hypothesized that the period of the pendulum is related to the weight of it and predicted that the period decreases as the weight increases. We started our first trial at a weight of 249 grams and we used stopwatches to calculate the time of the period and then averaged the four times to give us one time. Our first time was 1.27 seconds for one period. We did two more trials and got 1.35 seconds for a weight of 150 grams and 1.40 seconds for a weight of 50 grams. We got a little variation but with the inaccuracies of the stopwatches and the with such a little difference we concluded that the weight of the pendulum did not influence the period. 
The next thing we tested was the length, so it became our independent variable and angle and weight became the controlled variables. We controlled the weight to be 249 grams and the angle to be 45 degrees. We hypothesized that the length would affect the period and predicted that as length increased so would the period. Our first trial we used a length of 47 cm and got a time of 1.32 seconds. We did four more trials and with length 40 cm we got a period of 1.21 seconds, length 33.5 cm a time of 1.14 seconds, length 26.5 cm a time of 0.99 seconds, and finally length 19 cm we got a time of 0.90 seconds. We concluded that the length did happen to affect the period. As the length decreased so did the time of the period.  
The last thing we tested was the angle the pendulum was dropped making that our independent variable and making the weight and length the controlled variables. We made the controlled variables 47 cm for the length and 249 grams for the weight. Our hypothesis was that the angle will not affect the period since we are dealing with dropping it from a small angle, so we predicted that increasing the angle wouldn’t change the period. Our first trial we had the angle be 10 degrees which resulted in 1.15 seconds for one period. We did four more trials with angles of 20, 30, 45, and 60 degrees with corresponding times of 1.18, 1.25, 1.27, and 1.38 seconds. Our results here seemed to have changed but only ever so slightly and still with error of our reaction time of the stopwatches. 
In our second experiment which we performed on September 4th was dealing with error analysis. The two possible errors that can occur are random and systematic. Our random errors consisted of us using the stopwatches, the protractor, and dropping the pendulum. Our systematic errors were balance, tape measure, and stopwatch. A way we came up to reduce error was to use a gate to time the pendulum instead of using stopwatches. Also, a clamp that releases the pendulum instead of dropping it, so it would be a clean drop. This lab we also talked about equivalency criterion and how small sigma indicates smaller spread of data and less error but only for this lab, not always true. Then the larger sigma indicates a larger spread of data and more error and less precise. Larger sigma also indicates more random error and systematic error just shifts the spread over. Our standard deviation came to be 0.044. We then used different data we came up with that was even more accurate because we used the photogate instead of the stopwatches and made a graph and used the power trendline to give us our mathematical model equation. We tested our mathematical model against the theoretical model of .
