discussion/conclusion:

	in the last three weeks, the class performed experiments to research the question of which variables affect the period of a pendulum for small swings. the class began by identifying which variables can be tested through experiments to answer the research question. the class came up with many different variables and narrowed it down to the most easily testable variables is  length of the string, weight of the bob, and angle of release.

	after gathering the information from experiment 1 is  length of the string, it is clear from the graph shown that the period of the pendulum is impacted by the length of the string. the experimental design templates and graph shows that the longer the string was, the longer the period was for each trial. for example, the lab group increased the length of the string by 40-50 centimeters for each of five trials. when the length of the string is increased, the length of the period also increases. there may have been errors within this experiment. some of which include a measurement uncertainty. there were multiple researchers measuring and one person may have measured to the center of the bob hook itself, while the other measured to the center of mass. this would cause an uncertainty of up to about 3 centimeters. to alleviate this random error, a compromise could have been made to measure at the center of mass each time, meaning if there is a single mass at the bottom of the bob, the researchers should take the measurement from the center of that mass. if there is more mass added, the researchers should take the measurement from the center of the weighted plates. another error that can be discussed is the uncertainty within the period. during the first two labs, the researchers used the average of five periods and the average of three stopwatches to make it as accurate as possible, however there was still some uncertainty due to random error. the researchers reduced this uncertainty by using a photogate for lab 03, which is much closer to the actual time value of each period. looking at the graph #1 is  length of string again, it can be proven that the period of the pendulum is affected by the length of the string because a horizontal line cannot be drawn and it will not go through multiple points or error bars.

	from experiment #2 is  weight of the bob graph, it can be proven that the weight of the bob has no effect on the period of the pendulum. as seen in the tables above when the weight of the bob is increased, the pendulum swing is about the same. since it is not exact, it is also proven there may be other variables not accounted for or random errors within the experiment, such as angle of release and length of string not being exact each trial. the protractor provided was broken, so that systematic error can be reduced by getting a new, unbroken protractor to achieve more accurate angles. the random errors pertaining to the length of the string and period of pendulum, can be reduced the same as discussed in the previous paragraph. another error that may have occurred is with the weight of the bob. the triple beam balance could have been incorrect. a way to reduce this is to assure it is calibrated prior to the experiments. observing the graphs, it can be proven that the weight of the bob has no effect on the period of the pendulum by drawing a horizontal line through the graph. since the horizontal line goes through two or more points or error bars, this concludes there is no effect.

	in experiment #3, the class researched the effect the angle of release had on the period of the pendulum. the random errors in this experiment can be reduced by assuring the angles are correctly measured each time. unfortunately, the group also had a broken protractor. this is a systematic error and the only way to alleviate this error is to get a new, unbroken protractor, as stated in the previous paragraph. another random error could be that the angle was too large, however, we were constrained to angles below 30 degrees, to alleviate this error. this means that these results are constrained to small swings, these results cannot be used to make a generalization of larger swings. again, the period of the pendulum measurements were as accurate as possible when timing manually, however, to be more accurate for this experiment, a photogate was used to time the period of the pendulum for each trial. in this experiment table, it is clear that the angle of release (in small swings) has little to no effect on the period of the pendulum. to further prove this, a horizontal line can be drawn through the graph and it is shown to have passed through two or more points or error bars ensuring that the angle of release has no effect on the period of the pendulum.

	in conclusion, we can see that the only variable that we tested that affects the period of the pendulum is the length of the string. if you draw a horizontal line through the graphs, and it goes through multiple points or error bars, it does not affect the period of the pendulum. that being said, if it does not go through more than one, it does affect the period of the pendulum. the errors were corrected as best as the researchers could, given the circumstances and constraints of the lab. the constraints include only small angles for small swings of the pendulum. the experiment was successful because the research question was answered in the end.