discussion and conclusion



throughout labs 05 and 06, students adjusted the mass on both sides of a system composed of a cart, a frictionless track, and bobs of the same mass. by adjusting the mass with different numbers of bobs, the applied force was altered due to newton’s 2nd law that claims that force equates to the mass times acceleration of an object or system. since force in this experimental set up is also equal to mass times gravity, mg can be substituted for f. therefore, changing the mass of the hanging weight will ultimately affect the force. this experiment was conducted to address the research question, “how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes?” each group of students were provided with eight bobs, each weighing approximately 5.35 grams. once it was determined that eight trials were to be conducted, the team members decided to change the number of bobs attached to the cart and the string (hanging mass) for each trial, while keeping the overall mass of the system the same. after completing all eight trials, it could be determined that when the applied force on a system was increased, the acceleration increased also. therefore, acceleration and force have a direct and positive relationship. this relationship can be seen in figure 1, along with the error bars that represent the uncertainty of the measurements. 

the purpose of lab 06 was to form a scientific research community and consult with other groups on their experimental setup and data. group 1 compared data with groups 2 and 3, whose results can be found in figures 2, 3 and 4. all three groups in the community have the same hypothesis that changing the force applied to the system would also change the acceleration of the system. also, all groups have very similar mathematical models ($a=4.9681 f + 6$, $a=4.8214 f+0.002$), and therefore support each other’s results and conclusions. both of labs 05 and 06 experimented with newton’s 2nd law, which states that the force is equal to the mass times the acceleration of a system or object. this can be written in the form of an equation to be  $f=m a$. this law represents the theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by a single force. the experimental mathematical model of $a=4.224 f+0.0358$ found by group 1 is supportive of the theoretical model because in both equations, force and acceleration have a direct and positive relationship; as one increases, the other increases as well. for this experiment, there is no other enhanced theoretical equation since no other forces are acting on the cart, due to the frictionless air track and the fact that gravity is accounted for in mg. 

in the scenario that a heavy string connected the hanging weight to the cart, the acceleration should still follow the relationship pattern between force and acceleration, since the string’s mass would remain constant throughout the experiment. to make sure that this would occur, the mass of the string would have to be accounted for when taking the mass of the entire system. 

throughout this experiment, there were some areas where random and systematic errors may have taken place. one prominent random error is using the mass of one mass bob (5.35g) to estimate the mass for all other bobs. it is possible that the other bobs were not exactly identical to the first weighed bob. this would have affected the magnitude of the applied force, which would affect the acceleration. this error could have been reduced by weighing all eight bobs individually before adding them to one side of the system. another possible random error can be found within the measurement taken. since the balance used to find the total mass of the system and bobs was manual, it is likely that the readings from a team member were not exact. this error could be reduced by carefully reading the scale for each mass more than once. for example, if each bob was weighed three times, the average of each measurement would give a more accurate value. one systematic error would be the uncertainty of the balance used for measuring mass. the scale itself has an uncertainty of 0.001 and although this is hard to avoid, making sure that it is calibrated and taking multiple measurements of the same mass may help reduce the error. another systematic error can be found in the datastudio program. the measurements of acceleration taken using the program also have uncertainty associated with them, which can be seen in table 2. making sure that the program has been “tested” a few times before the first trial (calibrated), can help ensure that the values shown are as accurate as possible. 

also, there were some constraints present in lab 05 that may have affected the results. one limitation is that students had to complete the experiment with the materials given. the fishing bobs and frictionless track had to be used for the apparatus, although if this constraint was not there, students could have performed the experiment on a much larger scale and could possibly retrieve more accurate results. also, the measuring scales given were manual, and therefore, measurements could be inaccurate, leading to false values of the mass of the bobs and the mass of the system. another constraint is the allotted time provided in class. if more time was available to conduct the experiment, then more trials could have been ran and more data could have been collected as evidence.