discussion and conclusion



throughout the course of labs 01-03, the mass, angle of release, and string length of a pendulum (ivs) were manipulated in order to determine if each property influenced the amount of time it takes to complete a single period (dv). 

the data provided in table 5 and figure 1 support the initial prediction that the mass of the bob does not influence the time it takes for the pendulum to complete one period. when testing this variable, students kept the angle and string length consistent. throughout five trials, the mass was increased by 20g after each measurement (using the stopwatch) of the dependent variable. as shown in figure 1, the error bars are very large and overlap. based upon this information, along with no visible trend, one can determine that the mass and the period of a pendulum do not have a relationship and therefore, do not impact one another. the initial hypothesis and prediction that the mass of the bob will not affect the period is supported by the data taken during lab 01. 

	in table 6 and figure 2, the data collected while testing the impact of the angle of release on the period is displayed. a similar set up was used for each variable tested. five trials were conducted in which the angle of release was altered after each measurement was taken. after taking all five measurements using the stopwatch, the data could be compiled into a graph that displays the positive relationship between angle of release and the period. the trendline in figure 2 shows a slight positive curve that the data follows, which can be used to support the initial hypothesis and prediction that the angle does affect the period of a pendulum. further evidence that the angle of release has a positive relationship with the period is that the small error bars (from the equivalency criterion) do not overlap. 

	section iii obtains the data compiled for the influence of string length from lab 01 and lab 03. during lab 01, the mass (50g) and angle (45°) were kept consistent throughout all five trials. although the same variables were also controlled in lab 03 when using the string length as the independent variable, the angle was altered to 10° and different string measurements were taken (table 7 and 8). despite the different manipulations, the same claim can be made; string length and the period of a pendulum have a positive relationship. similarly to the angle of release trendline, the lines shown in figures 3 and 4 also display a curve, which the data in tables 7 and 8 follow. the error bars in both graphs from lab 01 and lab 03 are small due to the equivalency criterion and do not overlap. this fact can be used to determine the positive correlation between the two variables and to confirm the initial hypothesis and prediction. 

	the mathematical equation for the period of a pendulum was found upon completion of figure 4 using the photogate; $t=0.1975 x^{0.5023}$. compared to the theoretical equation for the period $t=2\pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. when given data points, the mathematical model produced from the experiment conducted in lab 03 give a slightly greater value for the period than the theoretical model. this means that although both data support the hypothesis that there is a positive relationship between string length and the period, the model is not as accurate. both the theoretical model and the mathematical model follow the curved trendline; ultimately, both are reliable when determining the period. 

	one major limitation of this experiment is time. due to an allotted amount of time to retrieve data, only five trials were conducted per independent variable. this small sample size can only support or refute a hypothesis to a certain degree. if more time was allowed for measurement, more trials may have been conducted, which ultimately would provide more data to support or refute the initial hypotheses and predictions.

	it is possible that random and systematic error may have attributed to some varying values collected throughout this experiment. on random error that may have been present is the inconsistency in measuring the angle from which the bob was released. it is very likely that the team member holding the protractor moved slightly while holding it in place, causing the angle to differ from the intended value. to ameliorate this error, each team member could be responsible for a different portion of the apparatus; one member holds the bob, another holds the protractor, and another controls the stopwatch. another possible source of random error is the timing of the stopwatch. it is difficult to receive exact results when the system is reliant on a human. one way to ameliorate this error is to have multiple team members record the time and use the average. one can also use the photogate system for more accurate results. one other possible source of error is string measurement. once again, a measurement taken by hand has a great room for human error. this could be again ameliorated by using the average of each team member’s measurements. the most viable and possible systematic error present in this experiment could be a photogate or timer inaccuracy. a photogate or stopwatch that consistently records a specific percent or number of seconds off will affect all data taken throughout each experiment, ultimately leading to inaccurate results. although the trend may be similar, the actual values would not be correct. one way to avoid this error is to calibrate the system or make sure that both the stopwatch and the photogate system are working efficiently before recording data. 

	throughout the course of labs 01, 02, and 03, the mass, angle, and string length of a pendulum apparatus was investigated to determine whether or not each independent variable influenced the period of the pendulum. after collecting data from each lab, it can be determined that the angle of release and string length have a positive relationship with the period, unlike the mass of the bob, which does not impact the amount of time it takes for the pendulum to complete one period.