discussion and conclusion

 

during this experiment, the research question asked was; what impacts affect the period of a pendulum. three different experiments were set up to test the affects that the length of the string, degree of the angle of release, and the mass of the pendulum would have on a period of a pendulum. the first experiment conducted was that to measure the affect that the length of the string would have on the period of a pendulum. as seen in table 1, five different string lengths (10cm, 20cm, 30cm, 40cm, and 50cm) were tested to see their effects on the period of the pendulum. during this experiment, the independent variables were the mass of the pendulum, which was kept at 50g, and the degree of the angle of release, which was kept at 20 degrees. each length measurement had between a 0.1 to 0.2 second increase as the previous string length measured. as seen in figure 1, each time measurement has a standard error of 0.076s, which is represented by the error bars. in conclusions to the results of the first test run, the length of the string does have an impact on the period of a pendulum. the second experiment conducted was that to measure the affect that the degree of the angle of release would have on the period of a pendulum. as seen in table 2, five different degrees of the angle of release (10, 15,20,25, and 30) were tested to see their effects on the period of the pendulum. during this experiment, the independent variables were the mass of the pendulum, which was kept at 50g, and the length of the string, which was kept at 50cm. each angle measurement had between a 0.05 to 0.1 second increase as the previous angle of release measured. as seen in figure 2, each time measurement had a standard error of 0.076s, which is represented by the error bars in the graph. in conclusion to the results of the second test run, the degree of the angle of release does not have an impact on the period of the pendulum. the third experiment conducted was that to measure the affect that the mass of the pendulum would have on the period. as seen in table 3, five different masses of the pendulum (50g, 70g, 90g, 110g, and 130g) were tested to see their effects on the period of the pendulum. during this experiment, the independent variables were the length of the string, which was kept at 50cm, and the degree of the angle of release which was kept at 20 degrees. each mass measurement had between a 0.08 to a 0.13 second decrease as the previous mass measured. as seen in figure 3, each time measurement had a standard error of 0.076s, which is represented by the error bars within the graph. in conclusion to the results of the third test run, the mass of a pendulum does not have an impact on the period of the pendulum. however, there were both systematic and random errors that could’ve had an effect on the results of these 3 experiments. some systematic errors could be; not having the exact angle every time, starting and stopping the stop watch too early or too late, and the string of the pendulum wasn’t measured to the exact length.  some random errors could have been; incorrectly calculating decimals, only one trial could have led to inaccurate data, and the mass of the pendulums could have been off. due to the fact that only the length of the string had an impact on the period of the pendulum, this experiment was the only one reran in attempts to reduce errors. in the fourth experiment conducted, a laser time measurement was used to record the affect that the length of a string would have on the period. as seen in table 4, five new string lengths (15cm, 56.25cm, 97.5cm, 138.75cm, and 180cm) were tested to see their effects on the period of the pendulum. during this experiment, the independent variables were again the mass of the pendulum, which was kept at 50g, and the degree of the angle of release, which was kept at 10 degrees. each time measurement for this experiment had between a .35 to .65 second increase as the previous length measured. the laser time reduced the standard error from 0.076s to 0.01s. the theoretical math model for this experiment is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. this was calculated using the equation of the tread line which, as seen in figure 4, is $y=0.2994 x^{0.4223}$. the only curve fit recorded is that seen in figure 4, which you are able to see approximately fits along our data recorded. using the theoretical equation compared to our tread line equation, our data was off by about approximately .14 seconds.