discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of labs 1-3 was to determine what factors would affect the period of a pendulum for a small swing. the three variables testing the period length were is  the angle of release that the mass of the pendulum was dropped from, the mass of the pendulum, and the length of the string used to hold the mass of the pendulum.  

	after analyzing the experimental design one graph, it is clear that the length of the string used to hold the weight impacted the period of a pendulum. by looking at the graph, the claim to be made is that as the length of the string increased, so did the time it took the pendulum to complete one full period. when the string length is 10cm long it only took 0.786 seconds to complete the swing compared to when the string length was 190cm with the corresponding 2.825 seconds to complete the period. since the error bars shown in the graph do not overlap, the data is significant and there is a relationship between the string length and the time it took to complete the period. based on this data, the prediction previously stated can be supported. later in this experiment, a photogate was added for more accurate measurements of time. 

	after analyzing the second experimental design graph, it can be seen that the mass of the pendulum did not affect the time it took to complete a period. the claim to be made is the mass of the pendulum proved to have no relationship with the length of time it took to complete a period. according to the experimental design number two table, when the mass was 20g, the time it took to complete a period was 1.47 seconds while when the mass was 300g, the period length was 1.44 seconds. since the error bars on the graph are overlapping, it can be stated that the data is not significant or there is no relationship between the mass of the pendulum and the time it took to complete a period. in conclusion, the prediction stated previously cannot be supported as the period length remained constant while the mass increased.

	by looking at the third experimental design graph, the varying angle of release did not show a relationship with the period length. a claim that can be made from this is the angle of release proved to have no effect on the length of the period. according to the experimental design number three table, when the angle of release was five degrees, the period length was 1.89 seconds and when the angle of release was 20 degrees, the period length was 1.90 seconds. with the error bars overlapping in the graph, it is safe to say the data is not significant and there is no relationship. in conclusion, the previously stated prediction cannot be supported as the period remained constant and was not impacted by the angle of release. 

	experimental design number four consisted of the same variables as in experimental design number one, but instead of the stopwatch being used to tract how long it took each period to be completed, a photogate was used. similar to experimental design number one, the increasing length of the string resulted in an increase in the time it took to complete each period. after analyzing the results, it is clear that there is a direct relationship between the string length and the time it took to complete a period. 

	the theoretical equation for determining the period of a pendulum is, $t=2$. with the use of the photogate, the results obtained were extremely close to that of the theoretical model. by using the equation when the string length is five cm, the time it took to complete the period was 1.41 seconds. however, when measuring the period with the photogate and the same string length as used in the theoretical equation, a period of 1.49 seconds was calculated. the mathematical model of this lab was not able to be reproduced as a result of systemic errors which would have included an incorrect string length measurement just enough to throw off the data or lack of a larger sample size for example.the theoretical model graph curve fitting was $t=x$ compared to the mathematical graph’s curve fitting produced in lab of $t=0.3253x^{0.0397}$.

	throughout the entirety of this experiment, there were several types of random error and systemic error shown. when operating in the laboratory room, there could have been a slight breeze as people walked past the pendulum which could have altered the time it took to complete a period. one way this could be prevented is to isolate the experiment in a room where everyone is sitting down and not making any sudden movements to generate wind. temperature could have caused the string to tighten and contract which would have affected the measured length of the string. within this experiment, four types of systemic error that could have taken place are altering string length, inaccurate angle measurements, incorrect mass measurements, and incorrect timing of the stopwatch. when swinging the rope on the pendulum, the length could have increased or decreased. to ensure this doesn’t happen, it is important that the string is tightly secured so that it doesn’t change length. when measuring the mass of the weight, the scale measurements could have been incorrect so to prevent this, the measurements should be calculated multiple times to ensure precision. when starting the stopwatch, there was a slight delay as it is hard to start and stop at the exact moments required to determine the period. to be more accurate, the recorder should drop the weight so that the stopwatch is simultaneous with the drop time. 

	during this experiment there were a few constraints that prevented further experimentation. with the string only being a certain length, it was impossible to test the time it took to complete a period after a certain length. also, the metal rod holding the pendulum up off the table could only go so high, so when the string length was long, the photogate had to be placed on the floor in order to measure the period. as a result of this, the period length may not have been accurate as the person letting go of the weight was crouched over and on their knees opposed to standing and being in a comfortable position.  

	

2