discussion and conclusion: 

	the purpose of the experiment was to test the impact of length of string, weight of pendulum, and angle of release of the pendulum on the period of a pendulum. three different experiments were performed over three weeks to help address the research question of what factors will affect the period of a pendulum? the first experiment tested all three variables and the impacts of each were observed and recorded. this experiment showed which variables affected the period of the pendulum and which did not. the data and graphs from this experiment concluded that there was a strong, positive correlation between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum, a weak, positive correlation between the angle of release and the period of the pendulum, and no correlation between the weight of the pendulum and the period of the pendulum. in the next experiment standard deviation was calculated and error bars were applied to the graphs to further show if there was any correlation. in figure 1 a horizontal line cannot be drawn through all three error bars for each point further showing that there is a relationship between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum. in figure 2 a horizontal line is able to be drawn through two of the three data points, showing slight correlation. in experiment two, however, we misinterpreted our data, originally stating that you could draw a line through all three error bars therefore showing there was no correlation between angle of release and the period of a pendulum, when in fact you can only draw a horizontal line through two points, showing a slight correlation. because of this, experiment three was not preformed using the variable of angle of release. in figure 3 in can be seen that a horizontal line can in fact be drawn through all four error bars showing that there is no relationship between the weight of the pendulum and the period of the pendulum. the third and final experiment used a photogate and more data points to further show the correlation between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum, and to help reduce random error. both figure 4 and figure 5 show this data, one having length in centimeters and one in meters. the power trend line on each figure helps show the relationship. 

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum was calculated from the power trend line of figure 4. the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. once we converted our data from centimeters to meters, as seen in figures 4 and 5, we were able to derive an equation from the theoretical model that fit out data. our data fits the theoretical model of a power curve in that when the length of the string of the pendulum is divided by gravity and plugged into the rest of the equation, the time of the pendulum has the same correlation to the length as would if the data was plugged into the theoretical equation. when 0.50 meters was plugged into both the theoretical equation and our derived equation, the answers were within 18/100ths of a second of each other.  

	random errors that were present in the experiment were reaction time of the stopwatch holder, having two different people time with the stop watch, the accuracy of the angle from which the pendulum was released, miscalculating the length of the string, and the reaction rate of the person catching and releasing the pendulum. of these random errors we were able to reduce the error of the reaction times of the stopwatch holder from experiment one to experiment two. we did so by having the same person hold the stopwatch the whole time and we taking 10 measurements using constant variables. to reduce random error from experiment two to experiment three, we switched from manual timing with a stopwatch to timing the pendulum with an automated photogate. systematic errors present in the experiments were due to measuring devices not being precise enough. there wasn’t much we were able to do to reduce systematic error aside from making sure the photogate was calibrated. in the future, systematic error could be further reduced by using more precise measuring devices. 

	constraints in the experiment that may limit the generalizability of the results were in the set up in that there was a maximum length the string of the pendulum could go before hitting the ground. in the design we were limited as to what angle we were able to release the pendulum from. both of these two limitations in the set up and the design reduced the range of the mathematical model and made it only generalizable up to certain lengths and angles.