discussion and conclusion

this lab sequence aims to accomplish two main goals- specifically what factors impact the period of a pendulum swing and generally understand the importance of experimental designs. with a setup as simple as a pendulum, it is easy to manipulate different variables and see the change in results of a single factor. modifications to the design were done individually as an independent variable to give results to the constant dependent variable (time). this gives for a better understanding of how changing variable can yield significant data. 

the three factors in question were length of pendulum string, angle of release, and mass of pendulum bob. by using these factors, it is possible to set up three separate experiment designs that address the initial question of period differences in a pendulum swing. length of pendulum string was the only factor that directly impacted the period time (see figure 1b), where there was a direct correlation between length and time. angle of release and pendulum mass did not make significant changes between period swings (see figure 2b and 3b), as differences were negligible or overlapped with one another. 

when referring to string length, the trend is the longer the length in cm, the greater time it takes for a period to complete. the best fit line to describe this trend is a power function in the form $y=1$ (see figure 4). while initially thought to be a linear relationship, obtaining values at the longest length showed that instead of increasing constantly, the period time only slightly increased despite the doubling in length. 

two major possible errors that arose during this sequence involved the recording of data and physical constraints of the design setup. when individuals are recording data, there is bound to be outliers from the range of values- this is corrected by not only taking additional trials, but also calculating a standard deviation and adding it to every plot point. this allows for better accountability over the results, as it means 95% of all results fall between + or - .02 seconds of their true values. similarly, the final experimental design was constrained by the limits of exactly how long string length could be. while obtaining data points at double the initial values recorded (100 cm to 200 cm) helped show the actual trend of the results, it would be nearly impossible to obtain values at any length longer than that. increasing string length was what lead to the generalize the relationship of the results, making a setup where values of greater lengths would better help demonstrate these findings.