conclusion:
The research question asked what the effect of increasing mass was on the period of the swing. Our hypothesis and prediction to this question was that the mass would affect the period of swing, and that the period of swing was likely to decrease as the mass of the object increased. The data we got, however, disagrees with our hypothesis, which suggested that increasing the mass would decrease the period of swing. While the overall data suggested that as the mass of the object increased, the swing time decreased, there was only a very slight relationship between the two factors. The data sets across all the trials had a very small range of about .2 seconds, which is not a big difference. While the error bars are small for each data point, overlap with one another, which also suggests that increasing the mass does not have a big difference in the time of swing. This experiment does only consider 4 masses that are slightly close together in range, so in the long run there may be a difference but cannot be said to have any significant difference. 
The research question for this experiment asked whether the length of the string has an effect on the period of the swing. The hypothesis and prediction for this question was that the length of string would have an effect on the period of swing. The data collected suggests that yes, the length does affect the period of the swing. The graph shows how as the length of the string increased, the period of the swing also increased, because the trendline shows a steep positive slope. This time, there is a significant increase in the period of swing, and most of the data points are close to the trendline. However, the uncertainty for this data set is quite large, comparatively, which would mean that this conclusion may be slightly invalid.
The research question for this experiment asked what effect changing the angle would have on the period of swing. It was hypothesized and predicted that the changing the angle will affect the period of swing, and that increasing the angle will increase the period of swing. However, increasing the angle did not seem to affect the period of swing. Looking at the data and the graph, it would appear that increasing the angle did not really increase or decrease the period of swing. Rather, it stayed more or less the same throughout, which would also explain the small uncertainty as well. The error bars appear large in this graph, however, the y-axis has a very small range of numbers, thereby distorting the error bar. The data is too close together to determine any relationship. The data points appear scattered on the graph, but, again, looking closely at the y-axis will suggest that they only have a difference of a few decimal points.

There are errors that also may have occurred during the experiment, which may render the data collected either inaccurate or not precise. Some systematic errors that may have occurred are identified below is 
 Determining the period of swing using human reaction time.
  There is a delay in human reaction time which may have caused the period of swing to either to be greater or smaller than the actual value. 
     To reduce this error, a more accurate way of measuring the period using a device that does not depend on human reaction time, like the photo gate, can be used. Or, if the stopwatch is the only thing available, it will be better if the person who is timing the period of swing does not change throughout the experiment, because different people will have different reaction times, therefore, making the data collected even more imprecise. 

Using more trials and more independent variables will allow us to see if the trend continues, and using photogate, which has a much lower uncertainty, increases the accuracy of the data. The r2 value on figure 4 is 0.997, which means that there is very low chance of error, and that there is a high positive correlation between the length of string and the period of swing. This graph also agrees with the previous graph about effect of length in that the period increases as the length of string increases. 