discussion

over the course of these labs, the research question being investigated was “what affects the period of a pendulum for small swings?”. due to time constraints, the only variables investigated were the initial angle of release, the mass of the bob, and the length of the string. the first variable tested was the initial angle of release. keeping all other variables constant, the period was recorded for 5, 10, and 20 degrees of initial release. the data was then plotted onto a graph with a trendline, an equation, and an r2 value. from the data gathered in lab 01, there seemed to be a slight correlation between the two. the data, however, was not accurate because of random error such as not having the same definition of oscillation when recording the time. the uncertainty for that graph was 0.505. lab 02 suggested that there was no correlation between the two. the slope of the graph created from the lab 02 data had a slope of 0.00004 and the uncertainty was 0.005. the claim that angle does not affect the period for swings less than 20 degrees could be reasonably made based on these results.

the next variable tested was the mass. keeping all other variables constant, the period was recorded for 50, 70, and 90 grams. the data was then plotted onto a graph with a trendline, an equation, and an r2 value. in lab 01, the data suggested that there was no correlation between mass and period. the slope of the graph created from the data was 0.003. lab 02 confirmed this suggestion with more accurate data. the slope of this graph was 2.0e-5 and the uncertainty was 0.02. the claim that mass does not affect the period for swings below 20 degrees could be reasonably made based on these results.

	the final variable tested in these labs was the length of the pendulum. keeping all other variables constant, the period was recorded for 50, 70, and 90 centimeters. the data was then plotted onto a graph with a trendline, an equation, and an r2 value. in lab 01, the data suggested a slight correlation between the two. the slope of this graph was 0.0035. lab 02 also supported the correlation with a slope of 0.0109. although the data of both labs 01 and 02 support the claim, neither of them met the equivalency criterion of 2 standard deviations. this means that we cannot say with 95% confidence that the values are truly different for these two graphs. one of the goals of lab 03 was to further investigate this variable. in this lab, the period was recorded for lengths of 15, 45, 75, 115, and 135 centimeters using special equipment and a computer program. the data was then plotted onto a graph and given a power fit trendline along with an equation and an r2 value. the results from this lab proved that length does affect the period because it met the equivalency criterion of 2 standard deviations. the uncertainty of the photogate used was 0.001, so the error bars on the graph were too small to be seen. the claim that length does affect the period for swings below 20 degrees could be reasonably made based on these results.

theoretical equation is $y=1.0035 x$



experimental equation is $y=0.098044 x$

after lab 03 was completed, a graph was created using the data gathered by the computer program. this graph was given a power fit trendline, which means that the trendline looks like a square root graph. the purpose of lab 03 was to be able to compare the theoretical and experimental equations. the theoretical equation represents the “true” relationship between length and period in ideal conditions. the experimental equation is the equation derived from the data gathered by the computer program. these two equations are shown above. keeping in mind that the x-axis of the experimental graph was recorded in centimeters instead of meters, the two equations are nearly the same. this shows that the experimental model closely supports the theoretical model. 

	some of the sources of random error during these labs included not having a consistent definition of a “period”, using different types of stopwatches (i.e. a stopwatch and an apple watch), and discrepancies in technique such as stopping too early or too late. random error would have caused inaccurate but nonbiased data. these errors were eventually reduced by having the same person use the same equipment for every trial. the use of a photogate and a computer system greatly reduced the uncertainty associated with the period measurements as well. if there was any systematic error, it would have been present in the stopwatches or the photogate. these errors would have created biased data toward one direction or another. some of the constraints of the experiment included not having enough time to run more trials and not testing a large range for each variable. if there were more trials run during each lab, the data would be more accurate, and the random error would be reduced. testing a wider range of variables (i.e. going up to 5 meters or 500 grams) also would have allowed for more generalized claims. in this case, the claims made were only accurate for pendulums with initial angles of less than 20 degrees. considering these constraints, however, the results of these labs did a fairly good job of answering the research question.