discussion and conclusion

	the research question that is being investigated in this lab is what factors can affect the period of a pendulum for small swings. the three different factors or independent variables that are tested in this specific lab is the amplitude (angle of release), mass of the pendulum, and the length of the string. the amplitude was changed in increments of 5 degrees starting at 5 and going to 20 as seen in table 1. the controls of mass and length of string remained the same throughout the experiment. the period was either 1.9 or 1.89 seconds for each trial, so it can be concluded that the amplitude does not change the time of the period. also, according to figure 1, the uncertainty is not large enough for the justification to be any different. the uncertainty was 0.1 s, so that can be attributed to random error that can occur in this part of the experiment instead of systematic error. the mass of the pendulum was tested to see if that changed the time of the period at all. the controls of amplitude and length of string remained the same throughout the experiment. 20 grams, 50 g, 100 g, 200 g, and 300 g (as seen in table 2) were all tested and there was little deviant between each trial. the time stayed in between 1.4 seconds for 100 g and 1.47 seconds for 50 g. the rest of the trials for the different weights were in between those times. it can be concluded that the mass of the pendulum does not change the time of the period. the uncertainty was yet again 0.1 seconds as seen in figure 2, so that does not affect the justification that mass does not affect the period. the variants between each trial can be attributed to random error within each trial. the next independent variable that was tested was the length of string. the controls of amplitude and mass remained the same throughout the experiment. this experiment was tested twice both having the same trend. in the first experiment for how the length of string impacts the period started at 10 cm and went to 190 cm with 10 cm having a period of 0.786 seconds and 190 cm having a period of 2.825 seconds as seen in table 3. the second experiment also started at 10 cm with a period of 0.8468 seconds and ending with 145 cm with a period of 2.4785 seconds as seen in table 4. it can be determined that there is a trend that as the string gets longer, the period gets longer. again, the uncertainty was small so that it does not affect the justification that length of string makes the period longer. the uncertainty for the first experiment was 0.1 seconds as seen in figure 3, and the uncertainty for the second experiment was 0.001 seconds as noted in figure 4. therefore, amplitude and weight of the pendulum does not impact the time of the period, while the length of the string does as it gets longer the period does also. 

	due to the trend in how the length of string impacts the period, there can be a theoretical mathematical model for it. that mathematical model is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ where t is time, l is length of string, and g is gravity. the only variable that can be changed in this model is length, so the smaller the length, the smaller the period. the longer the length, the bigger the period. the data in both tables 3 and 4 follows this model. mass is not a pertinent piece to this equation, and gravity could not be changed due to the constant pull of gravity on earth. there is a slight curve in both figures 3 and 4, but the curve is minimal enough that it does not affect the mathematical model.

	systematic and random errors are present throughout all the experiments. examples of systematic error could be measuring the amplitude or length of string incorrectly. another example of systematic error could be starting or stopping the timer too soon. these are all errors that can be avoided. they can be avoided the best with extreme caution with measurement or fixing the issue with the measurement instruments. examples of random error in these experiments are movement of air by someone walking by during a trial, or movement throughout the room causing vibrations on the table where the pendulum is set up. these random errors cannot be avoided, they just happen. to reduce the effects of these errors, multiple measurements can be made and an average can be calculated. 

	it is important to note that these experiments are done in a lab room where there are multiple other groups doing the same experiments. this limits the area available for the experiment, so the pendulum can be constrained to small swings only. if a bigger pendulum could be set up with larger swings, the results could possibly change for the impact that mass of the pendulum and amplitude have on the time of the period. however, for a smaller pendulum, the length of the string is the only independent variable that changes the time of the period.

	

