discussion and conclusion

	

what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?

the experiment with angle of release as the independent variable addresses the research question by adjusting the degree of the angle and measuring the time it takes for the pendulum to complete one swing. the data in table 1 and the graph in figure 1 show that the angle does affect the time. this is evidential because the error bars in figure 1 are far from each other and there is a drastic change in time. far error bars indicate that time is not constant. for example, when the angle is 5, the time is 1.03 seconds and when the angle is 10, the time is 0.96 seconds. this illustrates that as the angle increases, the time to complete one swing decreases. the graph in figure 1 depicts this by the negative curve. the experiment with mass as the independent variable addresses the research question by changing the weight of the bob and measuring the time it takes for the pendulum to complete one swing. the data in table 2 and the graph in figure 2 show that the mass does affect the time. this is evidential because the error bars are far from each other and there is a drastic change in time. the separated error bars indicate that time does change when mass changes. for example, when the mass is 90 grams, the time is 1.21 seconds and when the mass is 110 grams, the time is 1.00 seconds. this illustrates that as the mass increases, the time complete one swing decreases. the graph in figure 2 exhibits this by a negative curve. the experiment with length as the independent variable addresses the research question by altering the length of the string and measuring the time it takes for the pendulum to complete one swing. the data in table 3 and the graph in figure 3 show that the length does affect the time. this is evidential because the error bars are far from each other and there is a drastic change in time. the separated error bars indicate that time does change as length changes. for example, when the length is 14.75 inches, the time is 1.10 seconds and when the length is 13.25, the time is 0.89 seconds. this illustrates that as the length increase, time also increases. the graph in figure 3 exhibits this by a positive curve.

although, all the data from these three experiments indicate that all three independent variables affect time, lab 03 taught that only length affects time of one pendulum swing. this means that there must have been systematic errors in experiments one and two that caused the data recorded above to demonstrate that angle and mass affect time. table 5 reveals that as the length of the string increases, the time to complete one swing increases. figure 4 also reveals that the error bars are separated from each other. this proves that length affects time of a pendulum swing because it exhibits that the data are spread out from each other. in experiments one and two, the error bars should have been overlapping which would reveal that as the independent variables changed the time remained almost the exact same. this would prove that time does not change as the angle and mass change.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is is  $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ . in figure 4, the power of x, 0.5133, provided in the equation, $y=2.0465 x^{0.5133}$ is very close to the true value, 0.5. the slope, 2.0465, is also very close to the true value of 2.007. these values from the equation of the graph reveal that the data from table 5 fits the model. also, the r2 value, 0.99975, is very close to 0.1 which indicates a perfect fitted line. if the power of x was far from 0.5, the slope was far from 2.007, and the r2 value was not close to 1.0, then that illustrates the data does not fit the model.

measuring time is one main systematic error that affected the results. for experiments one and two, the time measured was not accurate. the same student recorded the time to help minimize error in measuring time. however, the time collected in experiments one and two are not the times that should have been found. one reason why this systematic error might have occurred is because the time keeper did not know exactly when to start and stop the stopwatch. one way to reduce this type of error is to let the pendulum swing multiple times, take the time of each swing, and then take the average time. another way to reduce this type of error is check with the instructor on how to properly manage the stopwatch. a random error that could have occurred during experiment one is not accurately holding the string to the appropriate tested angle value. one way to reduce this random error is to have the same person lining up the string at the appropriate angle and double checking the lineup.

there are no major constraints of the experiment that may affect the generalizability of the results. the only constraint that might have influenced the generalizability of the results is the time limit in lab 01. the experiments conducted in lab 01 were a little rushed which may have led to experimental errors. these errors could have led to the incorrect time readings which led to incorrect results.