discussion:

the research question being investigated in this lab is “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?”

the first experiment tested string length. different lengths varying from 10-50 cm were used to test how the different lengths affected the period. this experiment addresses the research question because it shows what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings. the data shows that string length does impact the period of the pendulum. as the string length increased, so did the period. looking at the original graph, the relationship seems to be a positive linear relationship (upon further examination it is proven to be a power relationship. see number graph 4). 

the second experiment tested mass and period of pendulum. looking at the graph and the data, we can claim that mass has no effect of the period of the pendulum. mass does not impact the period of the pendulum for small swings. this claim can be made by looking at the error bars that were placed on the graph. all of the error bars overlap and because the error bars represent plus or minus two standard deviations, this means that the data can be regarded as similar values and that there is no relationship between mass of a pendulum and period.

the third experiment tested angle of release. looking at the data table and the graph, a claim can be made that angle of release does have an impact on the period of the pendulum. upon further inspection, looking at the graph for angle of release (graph 3) all the error bars overlap which suggests that the data can be viewed as the same. this means that although it may appear that angle of release does have an impact on pendulum, the impact is so small that it is considered negligible. 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. the equation for the line that was made in graph 4 is $y=0.2995 x^{0.4234}$. the curve for this graph represents a power curve. this graph used the variables of string length (iv) and period of pendulum (dv). the constant values that were found from the graph were .2995 and .2434 which do coincide with the expected values of 2.01 and .5. mass and angle of release were not put through the theoretical model because they do not influence the period of the pendulum for small swings. originally, it was thought that the relationship between string length and the period was linear, but after using a photogate with a very small error, it is shown on the graph that the relationship is a power one.

some random errors were not releasing the pendulum from exactly the same angle each time, the length of string not being measured correctly, or stopping the timer too early or too late. the first error could be avoided my taking exact measurement with the protractor and making sure the angle is the same for each. the second error could be avoided by making sure that length equals 40.00 for example. the third error can be reduced by taking multiple trials and taking the average of the trials to find the time. some systemic errors would there being a time delay with the timers so when the button was pushed it is not exact or the scale may have not been correctly calibrated and therefore altering the weight of the mass. the first error can be reduced by using a photogate that has an error of only 0.001 seconds. the second error could be reduced by calibrating the scale properly and making sure that when nothing is on the scale it equals 0.0 g. 

some constraints in this experiment was that there was not much room to do a large swing of the pendulum. if someone wanted to do an angle of 50 degrees with a string length of 55cm, this would have been too large of a swing and bumped into the tables. another constraint was having a mass that started at 50g and not anything lower. also, the mass only increased by 20g, so the varying amounts of mass could only increase by 20 grams and nothing else. related to this constraint, the mass could not be overly heavy because the weight only went up to about 130g. if a large mass wanted to be tested this could not have been achieved, but since mass has no effect on period of pendulum this constraint did not affect this experiment.

conclusion is 

	this experiment was conducted to see if string length, mass of pendulum, or angle of release affected the period of a pendulum on small swings. to test this, 3 different experiments were set up to see the effects of string length, mass of pendulum, and angle of release. for string length, five different lengths were used to see if period increased as string length increased. looking at the data and the graph, it can be seen that there is a relationship between string length and period of pendulum. it was originally thought to be a positive linear relationship, but after using the photogate to generate data, the relationship turns out to be a power one. the second experiment tested whether mass of pendulum had an effect on the period. the graph with error bars shows data points that all overlap, so this shows that mass has no effect on the period of pendulum. the third experiment was to see if there was a relationship between angle of release and period. looking at the data initially, it appears to have a relationship similar to string length, but after adding the error bars the data points do overlap a decent amount. this means that there is a small relationship between angle of release and period of a pendulum, but it is so small that it is considered negligible. therefore, the only independent variable that was tested that affects the dependent variable of period of pendulum is string length.