discussion and conclusion

	the purpose for performing this experiment was to determine how the acceleration of a system changes as the applied force changes. 

	the hanging weight of this experiment was the independent variable which was consistent with the research question asking how the acceleration changes with the force. by having the mass changing throughout the eight trials performed, the relationship between the force and acceleration could be seen. in this scenario, using the $f=m a$ equation, the mass increases a little each trial which would then increase the force as there is a direct relationship between the two variables. as mass increases, so does the acceleration of the system, and if you have an increase in both of the variable on one side of an equation such as “ma,” then there will also be an increase on the other side of the equation such as “f.” after analyzing the data from september 27th, it can be said that as the acceleration of a system increases, so does the applied force. for trial number one, the acceleration was found to be 0.217m/s2 and the force was 0.06076n. for trial number eight, the acceleration was 1.73m/s2 and the corresponding force was 0.39053n. this supports the claim that as acceleration increases, so does the force. as a result of the error bars not overlapping in the graph shown above, the data is significant and therefore a relationship is between acceleration and force. as the hanging weight increases, the acceleration and force will as well. 



the findings of group two in section 19, as shown above and to the left, support the findings from my group. similar to my lab groups graph, group two’s graph comparing the acceleration of the system with the applied force had a linear relationship. in conclusion, group two and my lab groups data are very precise. 

the findings of group three in section 17, as shown above and to the right, refute the results of my group. unlike my lab groups graph, group three’s graph had a slight curve to it which indicated there was no linear relationship, but instead, a power relationship. however, the rest of the data found by group three was similar to the data found by my lab group.

the theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by a single force is $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$. this equation is supported by the experimental mathematical model of $a=c1 w+c2$. on october 4, the ta gave every lab group a different acceleration and asked us to calculate the mass by using the experimental model. to do this successfully, two equations were set up so there would only be one unknown variable which was the mass. once both equations were set equal to the same variable, they would be set equal to each other. the acceleration given was 0.96543m/s2 and the calculated mass was found to be 18.24 grams. this data was then used to perform the experiment and calculate the force which turned out to be the same number when calculated from the theoretical equation. the mass of the system in the experimental model shows up as the “y” value which in this case is acceleration. as a result of this, the mass of the system directly affects the acceleration. the enhanced theoretical equation is $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$.

if the string connecting the hanging weight to the system was adjusted so it became heavy, the cart would not have uniform acceleration because the mass of the hanging weight would increase with time, meaning acceleration would also increase with time. 

throughout labs five and six, there were possible sources of error, both random and systematic. a random error found during the completion of this experiment was a slight breeze which could have been prevented by enclosing the experiment in a room with no air gusts. the slight breeze could have altered the time taken for the cart to reach the sensor which would then affect the calculated acceleration as its units are m/s2. some systematic errors found throughout this experiment were; calibrating the scale wrong, the air track having a faulty connection, and the sensor could have been damaged by repeated collisions with the cart which would eventually lead to inaccurate readings. to reduce the error with the scale calibration, it could be calibrated multiple times to ensure the correct measurements will be made. the air track had a hole in the tubing which allowed air to leave and enter as it pleased and also made a high-pitched sound when turned on which altered the velocity. to minimize the error caused by this, one should work at a different station or fix the air track so there aren’t any leaks in the tubing. to reduce the error caused by the sensor, the carts should not hit the sensor more than one time per trial as the more it gets hit, the more it wears down, causing the cart to travel a little farther. 

constraints are limitations or restrictions that affect experiments from being performed to their furthest extent. the length of the string was only so long during this experiment which prevented further experimentation because only so many bobs could be attached. by continuing to increase the mass, the force would continue to increase as there is a linear relationship between the two. another constraint is the minimal frictional force acting against the cart which increases the time and therefore decreases the acceleration which will affect the calculated force. although the frictional force may not be a lot, it still impacts the experiment to a degree. 
