discussion and conclusion

the purpose of the lab was to determine the effect of a hanging mass on the acceleration of a system; in other words, how does the acceleration change as the applied force changes? to test this question, the hanging force of a system was varied, and the velocity of the cart was measured for each different force using computer software and an air track (table 2). the mass of the system was the control variable, maintained at 188.6+/- .05g, with uncertainty determined by the balance used to weigh the mass. the results were then graphed in a scatterplot (figure 1), and a trendline was created. figure 1 demonstrates a linear relationship, with an equation of $y=4.9362 x - 0.0102$ where x is equal to the force of the hanging mass (hanging mass in kg multiplied by gravity), and y is equal to the acceleration of the system. in other words, the force of the hanging mass has a positive linear relationship with the acceleration of the system. the error bars are extremely small, and due to the equivalency criterion, the claim can be made that the values on the graph are not equal to each other.



the general model follows the form $a=c1 x+c2$. c1 is equal to the value of 4.9362, which should be around 1/mass hanging in kg. c2 is equal to the value of -0.0102, which is the frictional force of the system. it is close to zero, as the air track removes almost all the frictional force.



other groups graphed their results of the same experiment with very similar linear models (figures 2 and 3). group 1 (figure 2), had an almost identical system mass as ours, and their c1 value was very similar to ours. they had less frictional force than our group, but the final findings and general models are the same. group 5 (figure 3), also had a very similar mass of their system, however their experimental value for c1 more closely matched their theoretical value than ours did. they also had a greater frictional force than we did. the general model is almost identical to our group’s, and their results also support our own hypothesis that the force of a hanging mass has a positive linear relationship with the acceleration of a system. 
according to the theoretical model, $a=c1 x+c2$. c1 is equal to 1/mass hanging in kg, then the value should be 5.302. the experimental value was found to be 4.9362. c2 should theoretically equal zero, however the experimental value was found to be -0.0102. the variances in these values could have come from air resistance of both the hanging mass and the cart and frictional force of the cart on the air track. although the air track removes most friction, not all of it can be completely lost. the total external force of the system for this model is equal to c2/c1, which in this case was -0.002066 n. the enhanced theoretical model is $a=\frac{f_{hanging}+f_{f_{external}}{m_[sys}]}$, which lines up with the calculations for the total external forces.
the massless string could affect the acceleration. technically, the string does have some mass, and although in this case it’s most likely negligible, if there was to be a much heavier string that was still considered massless, the model would be skewed, and the mass of the system would actually be larger than recorded. then the experimental model would have a steeper slope, or larger c1 value, than the theoretical model.
there could have been systematic error in the masses measured, as the balance used was not calibrated beforehand. there also could have been systematic or random error in the time gate used to measure the velocity of the cart. in the future, all measuring tools should be calibrated beforehand. three trials were taken for each different force tested (table 2), in order to reduce random errors.
constraints that limit the generalizability of the model are that the system’s mass must remain constant for the linear relationship to exist. the cart and hanging mass will also have to remain on a small scale, otherwise air resistance and friction will become too large to remain negligible. it would skew the data, and it will no longer follow the model. another option would be if the experiment took place in a vacuum with as little frictional force as possible between the cart and the track.