discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this lab was to determine how the acceleration of a system is changed when the applied force changes. this was achieved by running several trials on an air track with a cart and altering the hanging mass on the cart for each trial. our resulting mathematical model was $y=0.0043 x - 0.016$ and this answers the research question by showing that the relationship was linear, in figure 1, like it was predicted before the experiment was conducted. some possible errors with the experiment that might account for this include not letting the air maximize before releasing the cart, the track not being completely frictionless, and the fact that the string attached to the cart had several knots in it. all of these errors would result in a change of acceleration. 

the theoretical model was $a=\frac{f}{m}$. these group's information does support the hypothesis in that as the applied force increase the acceleration will also increase. however, the first group’s mathematical model varied from our’s in that it was very large, and the second group’s mathematical model is just slightly below our’s. this can be because of some of the errors discussed in the above paragraph.

	some other forces that may have been present in the experiment were friction because we just assumed that the track was completely frictionless, and tension between the bobbers, the string, and the cart. it should be presented again that the string had knots in it, which could have affected the acceleration of the system, even though the string actually massless. the equation $f=m a$ that was used in this experiment means that mass is the factor by which acceleration is directly proportional to the force causing it. in this case, the mass is shown as the slope of the graph. a possible constraint in this experiment could have been the use of the manual balance instead of an electric balance. the change in balances would have given more accurate information and could have possibly affected the acceleration of the system as well.