discussion and conclusion:

throughout experiments 1, 2, and 3 our question has been what impacts the period of a pendulum for a small swing. in experiment 1, we looked at how multiple variables could impact the period, these being mass, length and angle. we tested the impact of mass on the period by using an experimental plan (table 1.). testing multiple trials at varying masses with the length and angle staying constant. using excel and (table 5.) we graphed out (figure 1.). the error bars overlap at higher masses even though the period seemingly decreased but from what we know about objects of differing masses dropped from the same height, they will hit the ground at the same time. this same principle applies to the pendulum and shows error in some form. this ultimately proved our prediction wrong as weight had little to no impact on the period of the pendulum swing. when testing the angle of drop (table 2.) and using the data from (table 6.) we found from our error bars in (figure 2.) that they seemed to over lap heavily. this may have been caused from the values tested being too close together.  from this we can safely say that angle of drop has little to no impact of the period of a pendulum swing. when testing the length of string’s impact on the period (table 3.) we found that there was some correlation between length of string and period. this is backed up by experiment 2, in which we investigate how the period is impacted when the three variables remain constant (table 8.). from this we found the standard deviation (0.207217) and the equivalency criterion (0.414434). applying this standard deviation to each table (tables. 5, 6, and 7), we find the uncertainty of measurement to be ±0.207217. when applying the equivalency criterion to the error bars of each of the graphs (figures 1, 2, and 3.) we find that there was no experimental correlation between the period of the pendulum swing and length, mass, or angle. this is because the data overlaps when the equivalency criterion is applied to each variable’s error bars. though we know that length of string showed heavy correlation, the overall correlation was skewed due to error.

since we know that mass and angle of the pendulum should not be included in the mathematical model or equation because gravity would have an acceleration rate of 9.8m/s2 downward. length affected the period of the pendulum as it was not impacted the same was as the other two variables were. after going back and testing the impact of length on the period (table 9.) this time using a photogate to reduce the amount of random error. we used this final graph (figure 4.) to find a best fit line and the equation $y=0.100881 x$ with a coefficient of determination being 0.9994 and to come up with the mathematical model. though we know the mathematical dependence between the period and the length is . we came up with a rough model using the graph (figure 4.) and the power equation, however we failed to come up with an exact equation that would represent this phenomenon.

the random errors that were present throughout experiments 1 and 2 were mainly human error in reaction time when timing the period of the pendulum swing and inconsistences in the angle of drop. though the error in angle of drop was more difficult to manage as the protractors are mass produced and will always have some margin of error, the human error in reaction time was addressed in experiment 3 with the use of the photogate. the use of a more accurate and controlled system to better keep the angle of drop consistent could help reduce the random error. the overall removal of the human element of this experiment would help reduce most if not all random error.

the systematic errors throughout the experiments stemmed from manufacturing errors in the scale, tape measure, stop watch and protractor. the other error was an unsecured pendulum in which the string was not swing in the exact center causing anomalies in the data. these can be corrected by properly setting up the experiment and using more precise tools of measurement. systematic error can also be reduced by simply taking an average of the trials and removing the outliers.

some of the constraints revealed from this experiment have much to do with the scale of it. since it can’t truly be applied to a lager scale, the setup must be precise for a smaller scale with each experiment noting the differences in equipment used to help account for differing results. this also means that this experiment couldn’t be used to test other factors such as air resistance, gravitational force or more precise measurements such as total offset of the swing. to keep it generalized, its best to stick with a simpler means of setup while utilizing some of the more precise tools such as photogate.