discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of our lab was to determine how changing the hanging mass (applied force) on a system will impact the acceleration of the system.  

	to address this question, our experiment manipulates the applied force (hanging mass) of a system to observe how it changes acceleration.  we used control variables of our set up and total mass of the system so the main contributing factor to acceleration would be the applied force.  as seen in table 2, as we increased the mass of hanging bobbers, and thus the applied force, the acceleration of the cart increased too.  ultimately, it went from about .219 cm/s^2 up to 1.830 cm/s^2.  the relationship is even more apparent in figure 1, where it is seen that there’s a direct, positive linear relationship between the two.  our graph has an equation of $y=4.9792 x - 0.0085$ which insinuates that as the applied force increases by 1 newton, the acceleration increases by 4.9792 cm/s^2.  judging by table 2 and figure 1, we can see that increasing the applied force does indeed increase the acceleration of our system.  the error bars are very small, which insinuates that the differences in acceleration are likely not due to external errors.
as seen in images 1 and 2, both other groups had a similar linear relationship between applied force and acceleration.  this supports our assertion that there is a positive, direct relationship between the two.  they also both had y intercepts like our we did, which are probably attributed to external forces.  other groups had different slopes, likely attributed to different masses of the system and they also had different y intercepts due to varying levels of external forces and error.  however, overall, the format of our equations are very similar.

our experimental model, seen in figure 1, is $a=4.9792 f - 0.0085$.  the theoretical model is $a=\frac{f}{m}$. both models feature a constant—in the experimental it’s 4.9792 (1/mass) and in the theoretical it’s the mass.  in that sense, they line up because they both feature a constant of 1/mass.  however, there is a discrepancy because our equation has a y intercept of -.0085, when ideally it should be 0.  this y intercept results from external forces that impact the net force and thus the acceleration.  if you include the external forces in the theoretical equation, where $a=\frac{f + f_{unknown}}{m}$ the theoretical equation would line up very similarly to our experimental equation.  it would be known force multiplied by a constant, plus another constant number (computed by unknown forces divided by mass).  
external forces could be something like friction, air resistance, or even gravity if the track we used is not completely horizontal.  if we happened to use a string that had an impactful amount of mass, then our hanging mass and thus the hanging force would be larger.  according to both our experimental equation and theoretical, if the hanging force increases, so will the acceleration of the system.  therefore, a non-massless rope will increase the acceleration.
external forces that existed were air resistance and friction, which would cause systematic error.  though they are likely very small, they do exist and can’t be completely disregarded.  other errors that could have existed is human random error in using a balance to determine mass of our bobbers and system, the track not being completely horizontal (and thus facing the force of gravity), or data studio not being properly calibrated.  to reduce error, we could use more precise measuring instruments like a digital scale, which are not as subject to human error as a balance is.  we could also ensure the track is horizontal, our data studio is properly functioning, and we have as frictionless a system as feasible.  
one constraint of our experimental model is that we cannot identify and calculate all external unknown forces that are going to impact the acceleration of the system.  we can only calculate the force caused by the hanging mass.  therefore, there is a level of uncertainty.  we also did not test a wide range of masses, and with more mass our results could change, as could the impacts of friction, air resistance, etc.  we were limited to the mass of the cart and bobbers we were given.