discussion and conclusion:

the purpose for these previous three experiments were to conclude and determine what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? many different trials were involved to find out what variables affect the period of a pendulum.  one of these variables were the mass involved with the pendulum.  the results for this trial are shown in the experimental design plan 3. the data does not show a strong correlation between the mass vs. period of a pendulum.  the graph shown below the table results also seems to agree. the error bars are extremely large and far from the data points observed, while also showing a very weak of 0.2368.  showing very little correlation between the amount of mass affecting the period of a pendulum. two more independent variables were also tested in comparison for potentially affecting the period of a pendulum.  an experiment the release angle versus the period of a pendulum was recorded.  there was a total of five trials with various angles used while testing the time it took for a period of the pendulum to complete. the results and graph are shown about in experimental design plan 2. similarly, to experimental design plan 3, there also seems to be no correlation between the angle of release versus the period of the pendulum.  this graph also shared a very high difference in error bars, indicated little correlation between the two variables.  the value is also in agreement with little correlation between release angle and period of the pendulum, with a value of 0.0288.  however, there were two experiments ran testing the length of the string versus the period of the pendulum.  the first experiment was the experimental design plan 1.  this design plan was a five-trial experiment tested with a stopwatch controlled by a human.  the second trial was experimental design plan 4; which was ran as a ten-trial experiment with a photogate. for both of these trials, the same conclusion can be made about both of them.  this is that the length of the string directly affects the period of the pendulum. both graphs formed from the trial results had very small error bars, which directly correlates with agreement in affecting the period. also, the  value for experimental design plan 1 is 0.9796 and the  value for experimental design plan 4 is 0.9921.  this agrees with the previous statement, that there is a direct correlation between length of string and period of the pendulum and that changing the string length affects the period. the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is .  from our mathematical model during lab03, a 0.5 m string would have a period of 1.571 s.  however, our experimental value shown in experiment design plan 4 shows that a 0.5 m string took 1.522 s. since both of these values are very close together, we can conclude that our mathematical model precisely represents our data.  during the last three laboratory experiments, there was potential for error to occur; whether from random or systematic error.  the systematic error that our group potentially could have had a problem with would be if the photogate was not calibrated correctly.  this would mainly shift our data points or skew the direction of our data points collected, and a way to fix this sort of error would be to take many trials and average the total. the main source of error that could potentially have affected our groups results would be from random error; mainly because human error falls in this category.  some potential sources of error that could have accumulated during these three laboratory experiments could have been improper starting/stopping time of the stopwatch during trial calculations.  this could increase or decrease the period length and skew trend line for data collected.  another source of error could have come from improper measurements, either from not being precise with the launch angle and being off a certain measurement while calculating the length of the string.  this error seems the most probably type of error to occur because it is stated above that our theoretical model for a 0.5 m string did not have the same period as the experimental period for a 0.5 m string.  in this experiment, there were some constraints that affected how this experiment was conducted.  one of these constraints were a lack of resources and space.  we did not the most optimal amount of space to work with since there were multiple groups working in the same room and the amount of string we had was not a lot.  this can be shown in the experimental design plan 4 graph above.  our group added a trendline and it can be shown that it has a very high  value of 0.9921 stating it follows a power trend line.  but, other trendlines were very close in  values making it hard to determine which trendline was best suited for the length of string versus period of pendulum graph.  if lack of space and amount of string were not constraints for our group during this experiment, we could have run multiple amounts of trials at a much greater string length to create a separation of trend line values to get a better judgment for our graphical data. with this being said, we were still able to determine a correlation between the length of the string compared to the period of the pendulum and come up with the conclusion that the length of string has a direct impact with the period of the pendulum.




