conclusion:
	the purpose of this lab was to determine how the acceleration of a system changed as the force applied on the system changed. both the experiment and the mathematical model were able to show that the more hanging mass you added to the cart, the faster it would accelerate. the mathematical model whenever you plug in increasing values for the hanging mass, you will get a constant increase in the acceleration of the cart. the graph clearly shows this with a linear trendline being the best fit for the data set in question. data from other groups is attached to this document and can be found at the end of this paper. the data from the other groups also presents the same trend that our group found, that increasing the hanging mass of the system was found to have an impact on the acceleration of the system. 



	the theoretical model and experimental model for this experiment both give you the same information is  that the larger the hanging mass of the system is, the greater its acceleration will be. some forces that could be present during the experiment are is  air resistance or friction of the rotary sensor. these forces would be addressed by the experimental model by affecting the value for c2 (in the case of air resistance and friction of the rotary sensor). the mass of the system is shown in the experimental model with the value of c2 being equal to ffriction/msystem. the use of a non-massless string would have a negligible effect on the acceleration of the cart, due to its mass still being small when compared to the total mass of all the other components in the system. systematic errors that may have affected the data were the uncertainty of the scale, and the uncertainty of the rotary sensor. random errors that could be found were is  not using a consistent track length, possible pushing or pulling on the cart during release, and not releasing the cart after the air track had properly pressurized. these errors could be prevented by waiting until the air track had properly pressurized, using a mechanism to release the cart from a consistent track length, waiting a set amount of time (~5 seconds) after the air track was turned on, and doing multiple tests for every step and averaging out the data to reduce systematic errors. i cannot see any reason why this experiment couldn’t be generalized to fit any sort of similar situation. 
