discussion and conclusion 

the purpose of these labs was to identify if the mass, length and angle impacted the period of a pendulum. once the factor was determined, a mathematical relationship was found. 

by the end of the first lab period we were able to answer the first question about which factor impacted the period of the pendulum. figure 1 shows the relationship between length, independent variable, and period, dependent variable. for this factor we held the mass constant at 70g and the angle of release constant, 45°. the length of the pendulum ranged from 20cm, 30cm, 40cm, 50cm, 60cm and 100cm. the error bars on figure 1 overlapped for the first five points on the graph. however, if we were to take measurements that were spread further apart, for example the last two lengths measured 60cm and 100cm. we would see that the error bars would not overlap. we could then concluded that there was a relationship between the lengths of the pendulum to the period of the pendulum. from figure 1 we concluded that this relationship is linear. 

figure 2 shows the relationship between mass, independent variable, and period, dependent variable. we used 70g, 90g, 110g, 130g, and 150g for our trials. the length of the pendulum was kept constant at 30cm and the angle of release was constant as well, 45°. the error bars show an uncertainty of 0.0738. since the error bars are overlapping each other in figure 2, this shows that there is no relationship between the independent and dependent variable. thus we can conclude that the mass of the pendulum does not impact the period of the pendulum. 

figure 3 shows the relationship between angle of release, independent variable, and period, dependent variable. we used angles of 10°, 30°, 50°, 70° and 90° for our trials. the length of the pendulum was kept constant at 30cm and the mass was constant at 70g. a similar conclusion that was made for the relationship between mass and the period can be made for angle and the period. the error bars show an uncertainty of 0.0738. since the error bars are overlapping each other in figure 3, this shows that there is no relationship between the independent and dependent variable. thus we can conclude that the angle of release does not impact the period of the pendulum. 

the second lab period we calculated the standard error which was used as the error bars in figures 1, 2 and 3. we were to keep the mass, length and angle the same to test how much error was impacting our data. we ran ten trials finding the time elapsed for one period. table 5 shows the data that was collected. since everything was kept constant the variation in period time shows that there is uncertainty in the experiment. after collecting the data we then calculated the standard deviation which was 0.0738. for the trails conducted in the previous lab we then added this new found standard deviation as error bars to the graphs. for example, if the point was 1.53 seconds, with the standard deviation the range would be 1.46 to 1.60 seconds. the minimum value of the range was found by subtracting the standard error from 1.53 seconds. the maximum value of the range was found by adding the standard error to 1.53 seconds. 

as stated before the length was the only factor that impacted the period of the pendulum. lab 3 we were proving that this conclusion was correct. we first needed to determine how the length impacted the period of the pendulum and then if there was a mathematical equations to show this relationship. we used lengths of 25cm, 45cm, 65cm, 85 cm and 140cm. the mass was kept constant at 50g and the angle of release was constant at 15°. instead of using a stopwatch to time the period, we used a photogate. the photogate has an uncertainty of 0.001. the error bars are too small to see on figure 4. the trend line that best fit the data points was a power curve. 

the equation for the period of a pendulum is  [1]. in this equation t is the period, l is the length of the pendulum, and g is the acceleration due to gravity, 9.81m/s2. looking at this equation one can notice that neither mass nor angle are variables. thus the neither mass nor angle impact the period of a pendulum. therefore, the conclusion drawn from figure 2 and 3 are accurate. however, in the equation length is a variable meaning that our conclusion was correct that length does impact the period of a pendulum. also, if you notice that length is raised to the ½ power, meaning that our trend line was also correct. while the equations are not exact when using the equation for our power trend line and 50cm the period is 1.42 seconds and when using the mathematical model and 0.5m the period is 1.40 seconds. 

the reason for the variation comes from systematic and random error. systematic error occur when the actual measurements are not the same as the theoretical measurements. some of the systematic errors that could have occurred were not having the release angle exactly the same each time. another error could have been that the string was not measured at the correct length. systematic errors can be fixed by calculating uncertainty. random error occurs when there are fluctuations in the measurements due to the measuring device or technique. examples of random error that could have occurred are starting or stopping the stopwatch before or after the period was complete. in order to reduce random error would took multiple readings and averaged the times. we could have also reduced random error if we used the photogate in the first and second lab periods. while our mathematical representation was almost accurate to the actual equation, it could have been closer if we could have reduced the systematic and random errors. thus allowing our equation to be generalized, to fit other experiments and not just ours. in conclusion, the length was the factor that impacted the period of a pendulum, but the accurate relationship between these two were not achieved. 
