conclusion:
On September 25, 2018, a research question was established. How does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes? The hypothesis that was derived was that the force of the hanging mass (N) will affect the acceleration of the cart (m/s2) and there will be correlation between the two. The independent variable tested was the force of the mass and the dependent variable was the acceleration of the entire system. Control variables were the starting position of the cart, the mass of the system, the consistency of the vacuum, and the length of the string. The prediction for the experiment was that the greater the force of the hanging mass, the faster the system would accelerate. A template outlining the experimental design can be seen in table 1.
The experiment was tested using a cart on an air track and hanging bobbers. The bobbers were connected to the cart by a string and were hung over the edge of the track, while the cart rested on the track. Both the total number of bobbers and the cart made up the system. The mass of the system was constant, so the bobbers had to be placed on the cart when they were not being hung off the end of the string. The test was to determine the difference in acceleration of the entire system as the mass of the bobbers on the end of the string was changed. The cart was placed 420 cm from the end of the track and a vacuum was turned on to push the cart along the track until it reached the end. There was a rotary motion detector at the end of the track, which the string was placed on, so the acceleration of the system could be read electronically through DataStudio software. 
	Five trials were conducted for the experiment. The number of bobbers on the end of the string was varied for each trial, but the number of bobbers in the entire system remained constant. There were seven bobbers in the system. The first experiment there was one bobber on the string and six on the cart, with an average acceleration of 0.159 m/s2. The second experiment there were two bobbers on the string and five on the cart, with an average acceleration of 0.472 m/s2. The third experiment there were three bobbers on the string and four on the cart, with an average acceleration of 0.715 m/s2. The fourth experiment there were four bobbers on the string and three on the cart, with an average acceleration of 0.966 m/s2. The fifth experiment there were seven bobbers on the string and none on the cart, with an average acceleration of 1.68 m/s2. Each experiment was conducted three times, so an average could be determined for the different masses, as seen in tables two through six. The range of uncertainty in each experiment was the scale error of the DataStudio, which was +/- 0.001 m/s2.  Error for the scale, which was +/- 1 mm, was also considered in the experiment.
	The prediction to the research question “How does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes?” was that as the mass of the bobbers increase, the acceleration of the system will increase. The prediction was found to be upheld based on data and a graph that can be seen in figure 1. The graph was linear, which was consistent with the increase in acceleration and increase in force. The mass of the hanging bobbers was acted upon by the force of gravity. As the hanging mass increases, the force increases due to the potential gravitational energy (the equation for this is $U_g=m g h$).
When conducting an experiment, one must always be wary of errors, whether random or systematic. In the experiment conducted, there were multiple systematic errors that could have occurred, that the group looked out for to prevent. One error could have been the starting position of the cart. To maintain accurate readings of acceleration, the cart needed to start from the same point every time. A random error that could have occurred would be starting the cart at slightly different positions each time. Another random error could have been not individually weighing the bobbers. If all bobbers did not weigh the same and only one was weighed, the total moss of the system would be off, which would cause the force to be miscalculated. A systematic error that could have happened would have been for the scale to be off. This would be accounted for by taking the uncertainty of the scale into consideration. The smallest unit the scale measured was millimeters, so the uncertainty would be +/- 1mm.
	The mathematical relationship between the acceleration of the system and the force of the applied mass in the experiment conducted was $y = 5-0.6 x - 0.0515$. The theoretical model for this equation was $f=m a$. Since the actual model is in slope-intercept form, 1/m in the theoretical equation would be the same as 5-0.6. The F, or force, in the theoretical model would be the variable x in the actual model. The variable y in the actual model would be a, or acceleration, in the theoretical model. The -0.0515 is accounting for outside forces acting upon the system and are not zero, like they are in the theoretical model. 
When comparing data to other groups, it can be seen from figure 2 that the mathematical models for the other two groups was very similar to our own. Group Tucker had a mathematical model of $y=4.7102 x-0.0832$, while group Archer had a mathematical model of $y=5-0.6 x-0.131$. The results of their experiments also further support the prediction made about the relationship between the applied force and acceleration of a system. Although Group Archer’s mathematical model was closer to our own, both groups were similar enough that the hypothesis holds true. Groups Tucker and Archer both had a y-intercept that was very close to zero but were not exactly zero. This means they were also experiencing outside forces, such as friction, in their own experiments.
The reason the actual and theoretical models were not more similar was because the experiment was performed in a setting where there were other factors involved with the acceleration of the system. One major contributing factor was the force of friction between the cart and the track, as well as between the string and the pulley. The second contributing factor was the air resistance between the cart and the track, which was caused by the vacuum. Both forces caused the system to be slowed and for there to be some error with the results. If the string was not massless, it would also contribute to the mass of the system and would be included in the overall mass. Since this aspect is a constant throughout the entire experiment, there would be no fluctuation with its mass and would not affect the uniform acceleration of the cart. There was also the aspect of human error, which could have been another factor in the difference between the two equations. If the experiment were performed in a setting where there were no outside forces acting upon the system, the actual and theoretical models would be the same. 
	 