discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of this lab was to investigate how the acceleration of a system changes in relation to the change of an applied force.  this was investigated by creating a system of a cart with fixed mass on an air track, and adjusting the hanging mass as the independent variable to exert an applied force on the cart while maintaining the fixed total mass of the system (table 1).  as predicted, the graph of acceleration versus applied force, as seen in figure 1., is linear.  this shows that the acceleration of the system increases as the applied forces increases and decreases as the applied forces decreases, answering the initial research question.   

in regards to error, the applied force, or horizontal error bars, in figure 1. were generated by multiplying the uncertainty of the measurement generated from the scale error by the gravity constant to obtain the uncertainty or the overall force.  these error bars do not overlap, and if they are taken to 2ꝺ, they still do not overlap.  

one lab group in phys1051l006 found a positive linear relationship between acceleration and the force applied to the system.  this agrees with our findings.  their mathematical model also has a positive albeit smaller slope of .0038, and a slightly larger positive y intercept of .0717.  a second lab group presented findings of the same positive linear model between the acceleration of the system and the force applied to the system that agrees with both this groups findings and the previously mentioned group’s findings.  however, this group reported a negative y intercept in their mathematical model.  this is most likely due to differing errors and outside factors among the groups.  both this group and the first group mentioned reported positive y-intercepts.   

the resulting mathematical model of the graph obtained $a=5.2508 f + 0.0577$ and suggests the slope of the linear relationship between the acceleration of the system and the force applied by the hanging mass is 5.2508 with a y intercept of 0.0577.   theoretically, using newton’s second law, the model equates to $a=\frac{m_{sys}}{f}$   therefore, when the total mass of the system is kept constant as in this experiment, the acceleration and force of a system should have a positive linear relationship, and the experimental mathematical model obtained should have been $a=c f$ assuming that gravity is the only force acting on the system.   

to include friction or another external force in calculating the total acceleration of the system, the theoretical model is $a =\frac{f_{applied}}{m_{sys}}+\frac{f_{external}}{m_{sys}}$.  the experimental model displays a positive y intercept (figure 1).  friction is an external force likely to be present in the system but as it opposes motion, if it was wholly responsible for the y intercept, the value would be negative.  therefore, this difference between the actual and theoretical models is more likely due to something like the track being sloped which would make gravity a vector force with magnitude in both the x and y axes.  as we did not account for this and only calculated the force due to gravity as being directly 90 degrees south in the y direction, it could affect the resulting mathematical model.

if the string had a non-negligible mass, it would no longer hold constant tension throughout.  the tension of the mass-less string equaled the weight of the hanging mass, and therefore the force applied to the cart.  a string with mass will have tension equal to the hanging weight plus its own weight in one portion and across the horizontal surface it will have its own weight exerting force in the y and x directions plus the weight of the cart in the positive x direction and the previously explained tension in the negative x direction.  when the string has mass, the system is no longer accelerating along a single axis.  because of this, acceleration and force applied will no longer have a positive linear relationship.  

random errors include difficulty in stilling the hanging mass before measurement, and human error in mass scale usage.  these could have been reduced by taking the average of a larger set of data points.  systematic errors could include the miss-calibration of the probe or the scale.  these could be corrected by obtaining a corrected values on calibrated equipment and calculating the difference between the original skewed data and the new set.  

constraints on this experiment include external forces such as friction and air resistance the latter of which is most likely negligible.  although slight, the string does have a mass that will affect the acceleration of the system.  the system also loses some kinetic energy to heat.  as described previously, the hanging mass was moving after the addition of mass and was difficult to make still before each run, especially as each additional ball was added.  because of all these factors, the results presented should not be widely generalized.