discussion and conclusions

this lab investigated the question of “how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes?”. the experiment we conducted focused on the effects of manipulating the mass of the hanging bobble piece on the block that was moving on a nearly frictionless air track. while the mass of the system remained the same, we shifted where the mass was localized in the system. whenever we would remove 5g (one ball) from the block, we would add that to the hanging bobble piece. graph 1 shows that as the mass of the hanging bobble increases, the acceleration also increases in a linear fashion, showing a direct relationship. this is consistent with newton’s second law where the sum of the forces is equal to the mass times the acceleration; both mass and acceleration are proportionally related to force. our derived mathematical model was . this accounts for the sum of all forces and sum of all masses. the y-intercept of the best-fit line for graph 1 accounts for friction, air resistance, and other uncertainties not accounted for in our calculations. 

	as seen on left, group 6 set up their experiment in a similar fashion, and hypothesized a relationship between acceleration and force applied to a system. their graph also displayed a linear relationship between acceleration and force, while their y-intercept accounts for environmental factors, because factors like friction cannot be removed entirely. their data supports the findings of our own claim. group 3’s data also tells a similar story, but emphasizing forces in the y-direction. however, their graph is still linear, supporting a direct relationship between mass (which is proportional to force) and acceleration. the experimental model’s mass shows up within the force, because the force for each trial was found by multiplying the mass by the acceleration of the trial. the mass is in the moving cart and the hanging bobble. a non-massless string connecting to the hanging mass to the cart would decrease the acceleration because the total mass would increase. when you divide the force by this total mass, the acceleration decreases. 

	errors in this lab were present. one systematic error could have arisen from the weighing scale (for the hanging bobble pieces) being slightly off calibration. this would shift the acceleration line to the left or to the right. one random error included the off-set in accuracy of the person starting the computer system and the person starting the air track. this can be accounted for by having one trial performed three times and taking the average acceleration for this trial as the final. 

	constraints in this experiment include the fact that we only experimented this on a small scale in an undergraduate physics lab. this makes it harder to translate our findings to a large scale car, for example, and a cliff, for practical purposes. however, our small-scale experiment still supports newton’s second law and the relationships between forces, masses, and accelerations. 


