discussion and conclusion 

     as stated in the beginning, in this lab we aimed to examine newton’s laws by looking at force, mass, and accleration. we did this by studying the question, “how does acceleration of a system change when the applied forces change?”. in the experiment, we kept the entire weight of the system the same, however, we just transferred the weight from the cart to the string. this was done to keep our controls the same. by starting at roughly the same point, we were able to keep everything relatively the same amongst each trial but only changing the force (amount of weight hanging off the string). in this sense, we could see only how the force affected the acceleration.

we conducted the experiment over a couple of trials. as predicted, we obtained a linear model for our results (figure 1). this makes sense in most simplist terms because the heavier something is getting pulled down the faster it would cause the object to move. the model we obtained for our experiment was $y=3.2020493115594 x + 0.2789$ where y is acceleration, m is (1/m), x is force, and b is friction. for part ii, we were given the acceleration 0.60 try and obtain using our model and rearranging a little. though we did not meet this goal, our answer was close and actually made sense. this is because in part i we used a smaller cart than we did in part ii. even though our guess was a little off, we did use the correct procedure. 


the other group’s information supports our findings as well. as the force increases from .048-0.240 the acceleration increases from 0.22-1.28 (group 3, phys1051l, 015). this is also seen in group 2’s results as the force increases from 0.04-0.22 the accleration increases from .297-1.09 (group 2, phys1051l, 015). both groups also, respectively, obtained linear models as well and included the environmental factors of friction as did we when acounting for our equation. 

the experimental model ($y=m x+b$) and theoretical model ($f=m a$) are slighlty different. theoretically speaking, if we were in a perfect world we would not have to worry about friction. however, this force is present in our experimental model and must be accouted for. here, it is accounted for as our “b” value in our $y=m x+b$ model. the mass also shows up as our (1/mass) value that we obtained in kilograms.  a non-massless string connecting the hanging mass to the cart should not affect uniform acceleration of the cart because it is not adding an extra factor of weight to the equation. 

the air track and equipment may cause systematic errors based on slight inaccuracies in the measurement of acceleration. the scale may also result in slight discrepancies between the masses based on systematic errors. to fix these (or limit to the best of our ability), we were careful in measuring our exact starting location of on the air track. we also measured the masses of the weights before using them to account for any errors that might have been caused by the weights themselves. to prevent error even further, measuring the weights on a new scale, and marking the starting place on the air track with a different color could help. in terms of fully trying to derive the exact theoretical model using an experimental model, we had constraints that held us back. we would need more time in lab to be able to derive the equations and do more trials. also, we would need more room to be able to do this event on a bigger scale and a way to limit friction be as close as zero as possible to eliminate environmental factors.