discussion and conclusion 

the purpose of the three labs was to determine if factors, like the angle of release, mass of the bob, and the length of the string affected the period of the pendulum swing. in the first lab is  intro to experimental design, the three factors were tested to see if they showed a relationship with the period of the pendulum. in the second lab is  intro to error analysis, standard deviation was found along with uncertainty and error bars were added to each of the three graphs. from all of this data the graphs could be viewed to see their effect on the period of the pendulum. the results we had were inconclusive with the actual results. if the error bars are to overlap, the values are near each other meaning the independent variable had no effect on the period. however, our graphs for mass and angle did not show this. in the third lab is  creating mathematical models the length of the string was tested again with the photogate system and with a standard deviation of 0.001. the graph of the time (s) vs string length (m) is found under lab 03 in figure 1. as we can see none of the error bars overlap proving that there is a relationship between time and the length of the string. the was found to be a powers relationship as seen with this equation $y=1.05046845 x$. 

the theoretical model for this experiment was $t =2$ length/gravity which was determined to be around 0.2006x5. as we can see from our equation of $y=1.0498545 x$ these values are extremely close. the relationship is not linear. it is a power function relationship because it has a curve. the factors of angle and mass should not have effect on the period of the pendulum although our figure (1 and 2) did not show that.

throughout the three labs there are many possible errors that could have occurred. in lab 1 wrong measurements of angle, mass or length could have been recorded. these would be considered random error. if any of the equipment was not functioning properly such as the stop watch not working this would be considered a systematic error. our group did not measure the length of the pendulum correctly in the first two labs. in the third we measured it to the correct spot which was the middle area of the bob. in the future, we could start off measuring the length correctly in all three labs. the only constraint i saw was time. it sometimes felt like we were rushed which could have caused errors and it would have been more accurate if we were able to do more trials. overall, its visible that the length of the string is the only factor that has an effect on the time it takes the period to complete one swing. the other factors such as mass and angle did not show a relationship of affect.