discussion and conclusion

	

	the purpose of these experiments was to answer the question, what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? in these three experiments, potential variables that affected the period of a pendulum were discussed, experimented and analyzed. the three variables that were decided on that may have had a potential impact of pendulum period length were is  angle of release, mass hanging from the pendulum and the length of the pendulum string. tangle of release and mass on the pendulum were determined to have no impact on the period of pendulum. this lack of relationship can be seen in figures 1 and 2. the resultant lines of best fit of the data calculated in these experiments were essentially straight horizontal lines with a slope of almost 0. this slope of zero indicates that there is not positive nor negative correlation between the two independent variables, angle of release and mass, and the dependent variable, the period of the pendulum. the almost complete overlapping of the error bars in both figures 1 and 2 additionally show the lack of relationship between the two variables and the period of the pendulum, the overlapping of the error bars shows that there is no definite difference between the dependent variable values at different independent variables. however, it was experimentally determined that there is a relationship between the length of the pendulum string and the period of the pendulum. curve fitting technology fit the data values with a polynomic line of best fit, the resultant graph and line of best fit is seen in figure 3 and shows there is a relationship between the length of the pendulum string and the period of the pendulum. the lack of overlapping of error bars (too small to even be seen) in figure 3 additionally shows that there is indeed a relationship between the length of the string and the period, the values are different enough and do not overlap with uncertainty included. the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is . when the pendulum string length values in table 5 are entered into the theoretical mathematical model above, the resulting t values (period of pendulum) are very similar in magnitude to the t values we experimentally determined. other data collected in this experiment cannot be applied to the theorical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum because the other experiments used different independent variable, instead of length of pendulum string (l variable in mathematical model) and therefore the data does not fit the model. random errors in an experiment are fluctuations in data due as a direct result of the measuring device itself and can be reduced by taking repeated measurements and taking an average. a present random error in the first two parts of this experiment, independent variables release angle and mass, was the inability to have a completely accurate measurement of duration of one period length due to slow reaction time of the experimenter measuring the time with the stopwatch. to reduce the potential of this error influencing data, the same measurement was taken three times and the average of the three values was calculated and plotted on the resultant graph as the average period length. a systematic error is when the actual measurement is not the same as the assumed measurement, this results in the data being either higher or lower than the actual value. there were no systematic errors in our experiment as both the stopwatch and photogate used to measure the period were properly calibrated. a possible constraint that limits the generalizability of our results is that all of our measures were restricted to relatively small angles, and therefore the results cannot be generalized because it is unsure if the same results are found at an extremely high release angle of the pendulum. additionally, in order to be able to better generalize the lack of relationship between independent variables release angle and mass, a repeated experiment using a photogate to more accurately measure period would yield more accurate results that could then be used to more accurately generalize that there is no relationship between the angle of release or mass on pendulum, and the period of a pendulum.