discussion and conclusion

for lab 05 and 06, “newton’s laws” part one and part two, the purpose was to determine whether the acceleration changes of a system if the applied force changes. in this experiment, to determine whether acceleration is affected by applied forces changing, our group set hanging weight as the independent variable for our research.  this is the simplest method to propose whether our group can accept or fail to reject our null hypothesis; stating “the acceleration of a system is impacted by the applied force to the system by the hanging mass.  the reason this independent variable addresses our research question and can determine whether to accept or fail to reject our hypothesis is because changing our hanging mass allows us to change the force being applied to our system while keeping our overall system mass constant throughout the experimental trials.  this is important in determining the affects of our dependent variable because involving more than one independent variable constricts us from making a statement on what really affects the dependent variable.  since our group is determining whether or not acceleration is affected by changes in applied force, keeping the overall system mass constant and only changing the force applied allows us to manipulate newton’s second law and determine what truly affects acceleration.  during this experiment, our group was able to collect data from other lab groups testing the same research question as us.  not surprisingly, the results were very similar to ours.  team garak is one of the groups with whom we collaborated with to collect and compare results.  their collected data is listed above in the “data/results” section.  using the same controls as our group, mass of system, pulley and air track, and having similar collected values, their mathematical model created was $a=4.7909 x + 0.052$.  this is very similar in comparison to the model our group created listed in our plotted data, stating $y=4.7055 x - 0.0167$ where y is equal to acceleration.  having such similar results, controls, and collected data, team garak is in support of our group’s testable hypothesis. one of the other groups our group collected data from was team odo.  this group’s collected data is also listed above in the “data/results” section.  their mathematical model concluded acceleration as, $y=5.1169 x - 0.0112$. this model is also not too far off from our mathematical model and is also in agreement to our testable hypothesis. however, even though two of the groups agree with our data and our testable hypothesis, we can not fully accept or fail to reject our hypothesis without stating the theoretical equation for acceleration of a system from singular and multiple forces.  the theoretical equation for acceleration of a system with only a singular force follows newton’s second law stating force equals mass times acceleration ($f = m a$).  by manipulating this equation, we can solve for acceleration for a singular force ($\frac{f}{m}= a$).   this agrees with our data because knowing newton’s second law, we know that the ratio of force/acceleration is equal to a constant value of mass.  this means our slope for our plotted data should be relatively close to our experimental slope of 4.7055. however, 1/mass, which is 1/0.1978 kg is equal to 5.06.  this value is close to our experimental value, supporting our model. enhancing the theoretical equation for acceleration of a system is adding more than one force.  this could occur by adding additional masses to a system for newton’s second law and manipulating the equation and solving for acceleration like previously done in the “discussion and results” section.  listed in the “data/results” section is the formula for the enhanced theoretical equation.  this formula also supports our model because our group was able to predict hanging mass needed (force) given the cart weight, systematic error listed as the y-intercept in our model to record an acceleration near 0.412 m/s^2. our group record a measured acceleration of 0.395 +/- 0.00121 m/s^2 compared to our given 0.412 m/s^2 acceleration to try to meet.  the uncertainty of our measured acceleration was determined by adding the uncertainty of 0.00075 that the computer provided after finding our linear fit.  by being able to determine a certain force needed with multiple masses to record a specific acceleration allows the enhanced theoretical equation to support our model. if given a scenario of a heavy string connecting the hanging weight of a cart, the acceleration would decrease.  this is likely to occur because if a heavier string is used, the friction force is going to be greater and it is possible that the applied force is not equally distributed to the system and that there are more causes for error; like stated, the friction force and potentially more air resistance. every experiment conducted is hoped to be completed perfectly and efficiently.  unlike so, there are always either random or systematic errors that occur.  some of the possible random errors could be the friction between the cart and the track, the friction with the pulley, and air resistance acting on the accelerating cart and the accelerating hanging mass.  these errors could be reduced by using materials with a much lower friction coefficient and/or running the experiment in a vacuum, where no air resistance is present.  a few sources of systematic errors could have been the datastudios newton’s law program being off a few decimal places during the data collection, or the photogate not being calibrated.  a potential fix to reduce these systematic errors as well would be to conduct multiple different experiments to test repeatable and whether this error is shifting in a positive or negative direction.  once running multiple trials, the experiment data can be averaged and used for the results. within conducting this experiment, there were also constraints that our group ran into.  one of these constraints was air resistance.  this could have very well affected the generalizability of our results because we were testing for how force applied affects acceleration and if there is anything other than force applied affecting acceleration, our results may be skewed. another constraint could have been the amount of hangable mass applicable.  we did not have many resources other than a few fishing bobbers to run our experiment.  depending on the amount mass of the system and string mass, our system could have been more susceptible to effects of air resistance than of a trial if we had greater trail length and more mass to apply to our design.  this constraint could have very well affected our generalizability of our results.  however, at the end of the experiment, we can conclude that the acceleration of a system is impacted by the applied force to the system by the hanging mass.  this is show in our linear trend for acceleration of system vs applied force to system plot and by being able to predict certain accelerations with known and given variables.