conclusion:
The purpose of this lab was to investigate whether the applied force affects the acceleration of a system, and if so why. The experiment was conducted by using a cart on an air track. The cart was being pulled by a string over a pulley, and the bobs were hanging off the end of the string. The force applied on the system was the bobs hanging from the end of the string and the force of gravity pulling them down ($F = m g$). The hanging weight was the independent variable because that is what we increased (changed) for each trial, and then observed its effect on the acceleration. To increase the force applied on the system bobbers that were on the cart were moved to the end of the string (kept the mass of the overall system the same because the string, cart, and hanging mass are all connected). There was a sensor that detected the acceleration of the system for each trial. A data table was created (table 2) based off of the data collected in each trial as the hanging mass increased. Then from the data table a graph was created which rendered our mathematical model to be $y = 5.0534 x$ with an R^2 value of 0.9995. By using the graph and the model it was clear to see that the acceleration increased at a linear relationship in comparison to the force applied. 
 When viewing the other groups’ work in comparison to our own, it was clear that they had a positive linear relationship between the force applied and the acceleration of the system. There weren’t many discrepancies in the data apart from standard deviation found in the other groups due to random error. The only difference between our data and the other groups was that they had a y-intercept due to them having random error. 


The theoretical model for this experiment is $a =\frac{f_{hanging}+f_{unknown}}{m_{sys}}$ . When looking at our model we did not have any error, therefore the 5.0534x of our model correlates to the applied force or the hanging force/the total mass. This is what is equal to $a =\frac{f}{m}$. Since there is no error in our experiment the coefficient is exactly equal to what was found since the y-intercept is equal to 0. Our mathematical model compares well to the theoretical model due to our R^2 value equaling 0.9995. Since there was no error in our experiment due to such a low value for our standard deviation, it was assumed that any error that could be found would need to be systematic. 
But error that could have occurred in the experiment may have been due to friction on the track as well as friction between the pulley and the string. The air track could also be off balance causing the cart to move slower or faster than expected. Also, we assumed that gravity had a value of 9.8 m/s^2, but this can vary slightly due to elevation. The data studio program that was used could also have been faulty which could have been a cause for systematic error. Also, there is some level of uncertainty with the scale that could’ve led to systematic error as well. Since our data did not demonstrate significant human error there is not much that could’ve been changed to remedy that. The only thing that could be truly done is running multiple trials for the same hanging mass and then averaging those results. 
If the string were to have a significant mass then the hanging mass would change as the string would be pulled downwards. This would cause the acceleration to change as a result. Then, acceleration would no longer be constant. 
The only possible constraint with our data is that because the measuring equipment was not accurate enough it was stated that we had no error. Another possible constraint could be that this experiment may not be able to be applied to another system or be done on a larger scale. Or this experiment may appear different if the force of gravity were significantly different. 
