discussion:

there were three experiments and all of them were done on three different dates. the experiment, creating mathematical models was completed on september 11. the research question for this experiment was that does the length of the string impact the period pendulum? and the answer for this question would be yes, because the longer the length of the string, the longer the period will be. the relationship between the period (dv) and the length of the string (iv) have a positive linear relationship as we determined through the r^2 value shown on the figure 1.1. there were two important variables used in this experiment is  dependent and independent variables. we used the period of the swing as dependent variable and length as an independent variable. the length of the string impact the period of the pendulum in a way that if you increases the length, it’ll take more time and you can see that in the graph too. the theoretical mathematical equation for the period of a pendulum is 2π√(l/g). our model derived from the power graph was $y=0.199 x^{0.5022}$ this indicates that we took right data points and accurate measurements. when rearranging the equation, l is to the 0.5 power, which is very close to our power of .5022.  our coefficient was 2.01, which was the same as theoretical value of     $t=2\pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$       is 2.01 when the equation is rearranged. so our measurements and calculations are close in value. if we use better equipment, our experiments result should be far better. another experiment, introduction to error analysis, was completed on september 04. in this lab we learned that conclusion drawn from experimental design and data are influenced by controllable and uncontrollable errors. we also learned that how to determine ranges of uncertainty, how to find errors and the ways to reduce it. the systematic error we faced was that our balance was not zero correctly. and the random error include the reaction time of the person, length of string and the precise angle. in order to reduce the systemic error, we need to start the value correctly then, identify the error and remove it and for random errors, take multiple measurement and then take average of it so it will help to reduce the error. another experiment, introduction to experimental design was completed on august 28. the research question for this experiment is what effects the period of pendulum. the answer would be the length of the string, angle and gravity. the dependent variable in this experiment is period and independent is mass. the hypothesis for this experiment is that there is a relation between the mass of the pendulum and period of swing. and the prediction would be that if the mass is greater, the period will be shorter. after doing all the trials, we came to know that the period is same in all the trials because the length and the angle was the same and mass is not considered, so whatever the mass is, the period remains the same. if we change the independent variable to length. the prediction in that case would be that larger string will cause a large period. after all the trials with length as an iv, it shows that the length is different in every trial so as length increases, the period will increase too. and if we take the angle as iv, the period will remain same. it wouldn’t change.