Discussion and Conclusion: 

This experiment sought to investigate how the acceleration of a system is related to applied force, in this case, gravitational force applied with a hanging object. From Newton’s second law of motion, we predicted that acceleration would increase as the applied force, or in this case mass, increased, and the relationship would be proportional. From our numerical data it was immediately evident that acceleration increased as we added mass to the hanging object. This reflects Newton’s second law of motion, which states that the acceleration of an object is proportional to the overall net force on the object. Although this data was in agreement with our prediction and hypothesis, further analysis of our results was needed to come to a full conclusion. 

Figure 2, the graph of our data, makes a mathematical relationship between the independent and dependent variable quite evident. The linear relationship between the two variables indicates proportionality. Our R^2 value of 0.9968, very close to the ideal 0.1, tells us that our data is overall very close to the fitted trendline. The horizontal lines able to hypothetically be drawn through the error bars, though unable to be seen, further prove the relationship between the variables. Lastly, we took our experimental mathematical model taken from the graph in Figure 2, in the form of $a = C1 w + C2$, and compared it to the theoretical model equation; $a =\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$. Similarity in these values is the last step to drawing a full conclusion from our results.

Newton’s second law of motion $F=m a$ means that acceleration and mass are inversely proportional. In Figure 2, the mass is present as the y-value of the line through our data. If our experiment agrees with the theoretical model, the average acceleration should be right around the inverse of this value. Using the weight of our system from our experimental model and plugging it into the theoretical equation, we obtained a value of 5.727 kg, the ideal C1 value to verify this relationship. Compared to the value obtained from our graph, (y is 5.3792 kg), this is close enough to consider our experimental model similar to the theoretical model. The agreement of our experiment with the overall theory behind it using this analysis supports the validity of our results.

The enhanced theoretical equation, $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$ accounts for extra external forces (Fext) present in the experiment. The small, positive value in our experimental model for C2 represents this, and how they impact our overall results with error due to unknown environmental influences, such as slight friction or unevenness of the air track. This value was fairly small, at 0.0074. Since this value was positive, it suggests the air track may not have been perfectly level, a systematic error that would slightly skew our results.  Taking this and multiplying it by the weight of our system gives us a value of 0.1292, which estimates the impact of these unknown factors on our experiment, within our respective parameters. 

Speaking of parameters, this results of this experiment do operate a fairly universal level, since we are investigating general laws of motion. However, the constraints of this specific experiment were that the string connecting the hanging to the sliding mass had to be weightless, and the air track along which the sliding mass moved had to be perfectly level. Slight deviation from this would skew our results, which is discussed above. 

Our measurement scale error was at 0.05 for the mass, and the uncertainty for acceleration was given to us by the data system, averaging out at .00049 m/s/s. Our error bars in Figure 2, unable to be seen but present, were drawn using the standard deviation of our data. They  account for the uncertainty and random error associated with measurement, environmental factors, as well as the possibility of systematic error from the C2 value mentioned above. There is also always human error associated with measurement technique, although this was reduced by using the data system on the computer. Random error can always be reduced by increasing the number of trials performed, something we would have done with more time allowed. The time in lab could also be a slight constraint, since 5 trials isn’t very many. With more time, the systematic error could have been evaluated and we could have investigated our equipment, such as measuring the line of the track to make sure it was perfectly even. 
Comparing our experimental model to Group 2, they tested the same hypothesis and had the same prediction, and obtained similar values for gravitational force and acceleration, but they performed 8 trials and extended their experiment to include a wider range of masses. More repetition of the experiment helps reduce random error in the results, so we could have done this as well to achieve better data. We had similar values for our equations, however, this group had a C2 value of -.0093, suggesting the error here is from another source, possibly from slight friction on the track. 
Comparing our experimental model to Group 6 was a little more difficult, since they did not include their experimental model with their display of results. Although this prevents a comparison of these two equations, we can see from the graph of their data points that the relationship between the two variables is the proportional, and their graph looks like ours. The control variable, or weight of their entire system, is also a value only 0.039 kg above ours, and they also performed 5 trials, making their data a good reference for ours. From the data table, we did can see numerically similar results for the variables, and a nearly identical mathematical relationship, but an experimental model is needed for further comparison for this group. 
In conclusion, the results of this experiment led us to accept our hypothesis and prediction, and verify that acceleration is indeed related to net force and directly proportional to the overall net force. Our conclusion is in agreement with Sir Isaac Newton’s second law of motion, which states the relationship between these values and operates as a foundation for what we can test and investigate about motion in our world. 