conclusion:
The research question being investigated is whether or not the length, mass, or angle affects the period of the pendulum. The graph showing how the mass affects the period (Figure 3) indicates that there isn’t a relationship between the mass of the pendulum and the period because there isn’t an overlap between the sigma’s overlap. The R2 value is 0.7866, showing that it moderately follows the trendline. The graph showing how the mass affects the period (Figure 2) indicates that the dependent variable and independent variable do not have a dependency upon each other. The R2 value of the data is 0.696. The graph showing how the length of the pendulum affects the period (Figure 1) indicates that the dependent variable and independent variable have a dependency on each other because the sigma do not overlap. The R2 value is 0.9837, showing a strong correlation between the time the pendulum takes to complete one full swing and the length of the pendulum. The period of the swing increased with the length of the pendulum. 

Mathematical Model is 
$t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$

Our data fits the mathematical model because the power fit trendline can use the mathematical model. 

When carrying out the experiment to determine if mass affects the period of the pendulum, the time of 10 swings was not measured, so the average was not taken. Instead, the time of one swing was taken 3 times for each variation in the independent variable. There was more room for error in this technique, so if the average of the 10 period swings was taken, it would’ve been more accurate. There will always be some error when attempting to stop the timer at the exact time the pendulum stopped. There was also experimenter error in measuring the angle measurement because the protractor was not held perfectly straight for each experiment. The experimenter could not have stopped the pendulum at the exact moment in time the pendulum was at its highest.  These errors can be applied to all experiments and fixed with a more accurate technique to keep the protractor in place and have better resourced to stop the timer and catch the pendulum at the exact height of the swing. All the measuring techniques (measuring tape, protractor, weights, etc.) will have some uncertainty to them, so we’d have to pick the measuring techniques/tools with the least amount of uncertainty. Having the same experimenter carryout, the experiment each time will decrease experimenter error. 
There may be some constraints apart of this experiment. For example, the results can only be applied to the lengths measured in this experiment, so the mathematical model only applies to these lengths. Another constraint is that the experiment could not have been set up perfectly, with the protractor not being able to be set in place. 