discussion and conclusion: 

the purpose of this lab is to determine what elements impact the period of pendulum. the hypothesis was that mass, length, and angle all affect the period. according to the results, only length affects the period. figure 1 shows us that mass and period have no correlation with a r^2 value of 0.03 which is very small. also, error bars for mass are very long. a long error bar means that the concentration of values is low, and thus, the average value is less certain within the range of uncertainty within a given confidence level. similarly, figure 3 also shows that angle and period have no correlation. again, the error bars are long, which shows that with the uncertainty of +/- 0.051467, the experimental quantity might be far from the true value. the ranges of uncertainty were calculated by doing ten trials keeping the mass, length and angle the same and obtaining a standard deviation of those results using excel.  figure 2 clearly shows how length impacts period. it has a r^2 value of 0.9921, which is very close to one. this suggests that length and period have a strong positive correlation. for the graph length versus period, error bars are barely visible. this further shows that the experimental quantities are within the ranges of uncertainty. 

mathematical models are used to establish relationships between variables. the mathematical model from our experiment gave the equation $y=1.9804 x^{0.508}$ and the theoretical equation obtain from rearranging the formula $t=2\pi$ x square root of l/g is $t=2.007 \sqrt{l}$. our mathematical model is very close to the theoretical model and was about .2 off. random errors are responsible for the gaps between the two models. some of the random errors include not measuring each mass individually and more than one person measuring the length. random error can be reduced measuring something more than once separately and taking the average of those measurements. lastly, some of the systematic errors include human timing error and angle of release. systematic errors can be reduced by identifying that source of error and removing it. taking more measurements will not reduce systematic errors, it will only increase precision. 

there are many factors that could have influenced our results. the length of the string may have varied due to measurement errors or stretching of the string. also, the angle of release of pendulum could have varied which could affect its motion. since the pendulum is still experiencing air resistance and friction, it could slow the time so considering everything it’s hard to generalize. nevertheless, length does have an impact on the period of pendulum.