discussion and conclusion

	the research question for this lab was, how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes? in order to answer this question, we set up an experiment involving a cart on a frictionless surface, bobs and a pully system. the cart was set up on an air track, attached to a pully system at the far end. bobs were attached to the end of the string on the pully and to the cart itself. the bobs were shifted around until we had one trial for each combination of bobs on string and cart. (e.g 1 on string 7 on cart, 2 on string 6 on cart etc.) the cart was then released and the acceleration of the cart towards the end of the track was measured using datastudio. datastudio gave a visual representation of the velocity of the cart over time. by finding the slope of this line we were able to find the acceleration of the cart for that specific combination of bobs. we then plotted the acceleration against the force of the hanging mass in figure 1. that equation gave us the experimental mathematical model that $a = 0.0051 f + 0.0529$. this shows us that for every 10n change in applied force, there is a change of about .56 change in acceleration. it can be concluded that as the applied force on the system increase, the acceleration of the system increases as well. looking at figure 1 we can see that there is a linear relationship between the force of the hanging mass and the acceleration. taking the error bars into account, none of them overlap one another indicating that this is true nearly 100% of the time. 
	during lab 06 on october 3rd, 2018, we gathered data from two other lab groups with whom we compared our results. the first data was taken from group 3g1b, with members din, amanda, sanskrat and gabriel.

	it can be seen in their findings that they used the equation of f/msys + fext/msys for acceleration. the equation we gathered was $y = 5.3 + 52.9$ (after converting from grams to kilogram). group 3g1b’s findings refute our findings but agree with our conclusion overall. they discovered a different equation for acceleration from ours. if we were to plug in numbers to their equation and compare it to the same numbers plugged into our equation, we would find two different results that are not within the error bars on our graph. at the same time, their model still shows that there is a linear relationship between the force of the hanging mass and the acceleration of the system, so their findings coincide with our conclusion. 

	the second data was taken from group last group with members tessa, emily, emma and kelly, during lab 06 on october 3rd. 
	the equation for acceleration that this group discovered was $y = 4.5 x + 28$. when you compare this to our equation, it is much closer than the previous groups’ equation. however, it is still refuting our results but agrees with our conclusion. if we were to plug in values for force of hanging mass into both of our equations, we would get two significantly different answers, as their answer would not fall within the error bars on our graph for that specific value. our conclusions both agreed, as they also discovered that there was a linear relationship between acceleration and force of the hanging mass, and that as the force increases, so does the acceleration. 
	the theoretical model for acceleration was $y = c1 x + c2$, where y is the acceleration, c1 is 1/masssys, x is equal to the force of the hanging mass and c2 is equal to the fext/masssys. when we plug the mass of the system into the theoretical model we get the equation $y = 0.0053 x$. the experimental model we observed from our data was $y = 0.0051 x - 0.0529$. the experimental model is extremely close to the theoretical model and the slopes of the equations are within .0002 of one another. the slopes are found by calculating 1/mass sys. since the uncertainty of the mass measurements is .5, the two slopes should have been within .5 of one another in order for the experimental model to confirm the theoretical model. in the theoretical model we can see that there is no y-intercept value in the equation. this is because the experiment is done under the assumption that the track the cart was sliding on is frictionless, whereas in actuality, the track did have a frictional force against the cart. this is represented by the value of .0529 in the experimental model. in addition to that, the theoretical model works under the assumption that the string is massless whereas in reality the string does have a mass even though it is very small. the added mass of the string is not accounted for in the theoretical model which is why we can a difference in the c1 and c2 values between the theoretical and experimental models. a string with a significant enough amount of mass would increase the force of the hanging mass on the cart. that would in turn increase the uniform acceleration of the cart. 

	one systematic error that was present in the experiment was the presence of friction on the track and on the pulley. theoretically, there should have been no friction on either of the two, but there was no way to avoid it for this experiment. since friction slows down the cart, the presence of it would make all values of acceleration lower than they truly are. what could be done in the future in order to avoid this error would be to figure out what the coefficient of friction is for the track and the pulley and calculate what the net force of friction is. since the equation would have been net $f = f_{hanging} -f_{friction}$, we could calculate what the force of friction is and add it to the force of the hanging mass for all trials. this would allow us to get rid of the effects of friction at least in the mathematical model. another systematic error was the presence of air resistance. theoretically, the model assumes that there is no presence of air resistance when in reality there is. since air resistance causes the cart to slow down, that once again makes all of the observed values of acceleration lower than they truly should be. in the future we could calculate the value of air resistance and add it to the force of the hanging mass in order to get it to cancel out because net $f = f_{hanging} - f_{friction} - f_{res}$. since our data was collected by in an instrument and computer, the overall random error in this experiment was miniscule to begin with. 

	the mass of our system came out to be about 188 grams. we did not change the mass of the system as a whole, making our limits generalizable to systems weighing about 188 grams. another constraint is the pulley system that was used in this experiment. the pulley was assumed to be frictionless theoretically, but in reality, there was friction present. this means that our results are only generalizable to systems set up with a pully that has the same coefficient of friction as the one used in our experiment. a third constraint that limits the generalizability of our results is the air track that was used in this experiment. once again, the air track was assumed to be frictionless, however there still was a small amount of friction present. this makes our results generalizable to systems set up with a track that has the same coefficient of friction as ours.