discussion and conclusion

	the overall question to be answered in labs 01-03 was what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings. the independent variables first tested were the length of the string, the mass of the pendulum, and the angle of release and were compared against the period of the pendulum. as seen in figure 2 and figure 3, the mass of the pendulum and the angle of release do not impact the period of the pendulum.

	after determining what masses were to be tested in the experiment, each was set up separately and timed (table 6). the standard deviation that was found was set up in the graph as error bars (figure 2). this experiment showed that there was no influence on the period of the pendulum by the mass because all of the data points overlapped and showed no difference in time.

	angles of release were also tested in the experiment, each set up separately and timed (table 7). the same standard deviation was used as the data was plotted (figure 3) and the error bars, once again, showed that there was no influence on the period of the pendulum by the angle of release. the error bars made it clear that the data points were much too close to have a difference in time.

	the experiment testing the length of the string against the period of the pendulum was the only variable to have an impact. the data found after determining the lengths to be tested and timed (table 5) were graphed with the standard deviation setting the error bars (figure 1). while some error bars in the middle of the graph overlap, the first and last points do not, showing that there is a difference in the data collected. this gives evidence to the prediction that a longer length in string will mean a longer period.

	to further the evidence found above, the length of the string was tested once again, but this time using a photogate system. this system timed the movement past a sensor instead of a person using a hand-held timer in order to reduce error. the lengths to be used were determined and the photogate system time the period of the pendulum swings (table 8). the data was significantly closer together and graphing with error of 0.001 seconds (figure 4) showed that the initial findings were correct. with this data, which has a power trendline, it is seen that there is an impact on the period by the length of the string used.

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. using this equation and a length of 50 cm, the period is found to be 1.4192 seconds. this equation makes sense because the period found is between the periods of 40 cm and 60 cm that were measured in the experiment.

	despite trying to be as accurate as possible throughout the experiment, there were still random and systematic errors present. an example of a random error is a person using the hand-held stopwatch. no human can have precisely accurate reaction times and get the exact period of the swing. this was fixed by using the photogate system, as it is much more accurate than a human timing the period. there was also an issue with the stopwatches themselves, where the buttons would stick and the swing would have to be redone. this issue was also solved by using the photogate system. 

	the hardest constraint in this lab was time. issues arose during the lab period where there was not enough time to complete all of lab 01. it was completed in a hurry during the second lab period, which could have led to errors in the data. finishing lab 01 and lab 02 in one day was a bit hectic, but was completed as best as it could have been in the time allotted.