discussion and conclusion

	the research question of this lab report is how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force is changed. the effect of the force applied on the system to the acceleration of the system was explored. the mass of the entire system stayed constant but the mass of the applied force was altered to find different accelerations of the system making applied force the independent variable. after trials with different masses of applied force, our hypothesis was correct and there was a positive, linear, and nearly directly proportional relationship between the force applied on the system and the acceleration of the system. the r2 value was 0.989 and the graph’s equation for the slope was $y=0.0053 x - 0.095$ and error bars were kept very small. this concludes that there was a strong, positive, linear, and nearly directly proportional relationship between the force applied on the system and the acceleration of the system.

	viewing other groups data collected showed both similarities and differences in data collected during the lab. group 2 in phys 1051l section 017 had a similar graph displaying a positive, linear, and nearly directly proportional relationship between force applied and acceleration of the system. their r2 value was 0.9998 and they had an equation of $y=0.501 x - 0.029$. the reason the slope might be different between our data and their data can be due to different accelerations for each trial or maybe converting grams to kilograms. on the other hand, group 2 in phys 1051l section 019 had a graph was positive but also curved. when inserting the data, the best fit for the graph seemed to be a polynomial to the second order that would cause the equation to be $y=- 1.85 x - 0.16$ with an r2 value of 0.99752. however, it is possible as well that there was a single outlier in (0.19012, 0.998) that caused the slight curve in the data because removing that one point would cause the r2 value to be 0.996 in a linear relationship and the equation would be $y=4.8573 x - 0.0417$. further trials and investigation could further explain and prove either equation.

	the mathematical equation of the model for our data is $y=0.0053 x - 0.0951$. the theoretical equation of the model is $a=\frac{2 g}{3}$. the mathematical equation works well with the theoretical equation except that the mathematical equation contains a y-intercept signifying other forces interacting on the system. otherwise, the mathematical equation and theoretical equation can be plugged in and work with one another.

if a heavy string was connecting the hanging weight with the cart, the acceleration of the system would increase since more. however, the mathematical and theoretical equations would not alter because since the string is heavier, more mass is added to the applied force and the system itself. with more applied force, the acceleration is also going to increase at a constant rate. 

some random error that could have been present is errors and variation in the balance, error in the vacuum system, friction, systematic error in the balance, datastudio not being calibrated correctly, and environmental factors. many of these errors were able to be reduced by staying in a controlled system. environmental factors were very minimal due to the lab taking place inside. friction was at a very minimal due to the lab being done in a vacuum system. scale and the datastudio system could be calibrated more. some constraints that were in the lab was the distance the system traveled, weight of the string, amount of weight that could be attached to the system, and the length of the string. these constraints could limit us to generalize that the system will always follow the theoretical and mathematical equations. where having the system travel a longer distance or applying different amounts of applied force could significantly impact the results of the lab experiment.