discussion and conclusion 

    the research question investigated in labs 01-03 was whether or not independent variables, such as string length, mass, and angle of release, impact the period of a pendulum for small swings. the dependent variable in these experiments was the period length of the pendulum

     these three different variables were tested in separate experiments in order to determine whether or not they would affect the time it took for a pendulum to complete a full swing. first the string length of the pendulum was varied, then the mass on the end of the string, then the angle of release.  

       graph 1 demonstrates the relationship between string length and period length. by keeping all other variables constant and varying the string length in between trials, we were able to determine whether or not the length of the string affected the period of a pendulum for small swings. the slope of this graph was .0105, demonstrating a positive relationship. this shows that the period increased as the string length increased and infers that the hypothesis can be accepted.

      graph 2 also demonstrates the relationship between string length and period length, but instead of taking measurements by hand, a photogate sensor was used. the data collected showed a positive relationship and there was no overlap of error bars. this means that the hypothesis stating that increasing the string length of the pendulum will increase the period length can be accepted as true.

      graph 3 demonstrates the relationship between mass and period length. by keeping all other variables constant and varying the mass at the end of the string in between trials, we were able to determine whether or not the mass at the end of a pendulum affected the period of a pendulum for small swings. the values obtained for this graph oscillated randomly and the error bars of some data points overlapped. this shows that there was no relationship between the mass of the pendulum and period length. therefore, the hypothesis could not be accepted as true.

        graph 4 demonstrates the relationship between angle of release and period length. by keeping all other variables constant and varying the angle at which the pendulum was released, we were able to determine whether or not the angle of release affected the period of a pendulum for small swings. the slope of this graph was .0072, demonstrating a positive and linear relationship. this indicated a slightly positive relationship between angle of release and period length. however, since the error bars overlapped for multiple data points, the hypothesis that the angle of release affects the period length of a pendulum cannot be accepted.

       the mathematical model for the period of the pendulum in graph 2 is $t=0.5404 l^{0.2909}$. in this equation, “l” represents the string’s length in meters and “t” represents the time it takes for the pendulum to complete a full period in seconds. based on the equation found, the graph was fitted with a power curve trendline to fit the data. the theoretical model of the period of a pendulum is actually     $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$      ,    where “t” is time of period in seconds, “l” is the length of the string in meters, and “g” is the acceleration of gravity (-9.8m/s^2). based on calculations performed on september 11th, the period for a string length of .5m using the mathematical model developed during the experiment  t is 1.686s. the theoretical period for a string length of .5m would t is 1.419s. the experimental value is slightly higher than the theoretical value. this means that the model is not entirely accurate, even though the data was significant enough to support the hypothesis. 

       random error could have been introduced due to inaccuracies in string measurement and/or inaccurate measuring of time with the stopwatch. this error would have been significant to the data due to the small sample size of data. since there was the time constraint of the lab period, only five string lengths were measured and only one trial was taken for each individual string length. error could have been reduced by testing more string lengths, as well as performing more trials for each string length then averaging them. 

      aside from this constraint and error, systematic error could have been introduced by inaccuracies in the weight set, tape measure, timer function, protractor, or photogate sensor. any of these errors would result in inaccurate data that was either higher or lower than the “true” values and affected the experimental mathematical model. in order to avoid this error, all equipment should be tested and checked before beginning the lab and replaced if not in proper function. 

      in this experiment, variable that impact the period length of a pendulum was investigated. it was discovered that string length has an effect on period, but mass and angle of release does not.