discussion:

	this experiment was conducted to determine what factors affect the period of a pendulum for small swings. various independent variable including mass, string length, and drop angle were investigated. to determine if the period of a pendulum is related to the mass of the pendulum for small swings, the period was measured for varying masses (50g, 70g, 90g) utilizing constant string length (49.3 cm) and drop angle (30 degrees) (table 5).  the collected data was then averaged for each mass and plotted in a scatter plot (figure 1). error bars indicate the uncertainty (+/- 0.11s) for all measurements determined by calculating the standard deviation (σ is 0.11s) of the method of experimentation for ten pendulum drop determinations with identical mass (50g), string length (65.5cm), and drop angle (30 degrees) (table 8). this standard deviation measurement accounts for the random error. no correlation between pendulum mass and period length was observed, as there is no clear trend observed and data points are not significantly different throughout the data set as overlaps between the different equivalency criterion (±2σ) of the data points is observed. this refutes the hypothesis that the period of a pendulum is related to the mass of the pendulum for small swings.

	to determining the impact of string length on the period of a pendulum for small swings, the period was measured for varying string lengths (49.3 cm, 35.5 cm, 19.5 cm) utilizing constant mass (50 g) and drop angle (30 degrees) (table 6). the collected data was then averaged for each string length and plotted on a scatter plot (figure 2). error bars correlating to the determined standard deviation (σ is 0.11s) indicate the uncertainty (+/- 0.11s) of each measurement accounting for random error. an upward trending power trendline passes through each point, indicating that the data is positively related. the first and last points are significantly different based on the equivalency criterion of each point, supporting the hypothesis that string length is related to the period of a pendulum for small swings. 

	to determining the impact of drop angle on the period of a pendulum for small swings, the period was measured for varying drop angles (10°, 20°, and 30°) utilizing constant string length (49.3 cm) and mass (50 g) (table 7). the collected data was then averaged for each drop angle and plotted on a scatter plot with error bars (+/- 0.11 s) corresponding to the calculated standard deviation (σ is 0.11s), accounting for random error (figure 3). data points are not significantly different throughout the data set as overlaps between the different equivalency criterion (±2σ) of the data points are observed. this refutes the hypothesis that the period of a pendulum is related to the drop angle of the pendulum for small swings

	photogate was used to further investigate the impact of string length on the period of a pendulum for small swings, as a positive correlation was observed in preliminary testing.  the period was measured for varying string lengths (30 cm, 60 cm, 90 cm, 120 cm, and 150 cm) utilizing constant mass (50 g) and drop angle (15 degrees). one reading was taken for each string length and plotted as a scatter plot with error bars (+/- 0.001s) corresponding to the uncertainty of the photogate machinery used to collect the data, which is classified as systematic error (figure 4). the equation generated by the power line $y=0.2788 x^{0.43}$ resulted in an x to the power of 0.437, which was very close to the expected x to the power of 0.5  based off the equation for the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum     $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$        $y=c^{2}$       (figure 4).this indicated that the data was able to generate a full model of the power relationship between string length and period length as a result of this experiment. this supported the hypothesis that that string length is related to the period of a pendulum for small swings.

	all preliminary testing that involved manually measuring the period of a pendulum was subject to random error, which was calculated as the standard deviation (+/- 0.11s) of a data set of ten identical pendulum period measurement determinations. this random error could have been reduced by adding more determinations for each independent variable tested. final testing of how string length influenced period length was done using the program photogate, which was subject to systematic error (+/- 0.0001s). systematic error can only be reduced by fixing the machine. 

	constraints that may limit the generalization of these results primarily pertain to the testing of mass, string length, and drop angle which were done manually and not by photogate software. more string lengths, angles, and masses could have been measured in the preliminary testing phase, and error could have been reduced by using photogate software in the preliminary testing phase. this would have generated more accurate models for if mass, string length, or drop angle affect period length allowing for greater generalizations to be made from the data obtained. 

	

conclusion is 

	investigating what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings, the independent variables mass, string length, and drop angle were tested. the period was measured for varying masses (50g, 70g, 90g) utilizing constant string length (49.3 cm) and drop angle (30 degrees), and the data was plotted (table 5) (figure 1). data analysis indicated that there was no correlation between the mass and the period of a pendulum, based on lack of an observed trend in graphed data and lack of statistical difference in points based on the equivalency criterion (±2σ). then the period was measured for varying drop angles (10°, 20°, and 30°) utilizing constant string length (49.3 cm) and mass (50 g), and the data was plotted (table 7) (figure 3). data analysis indicated that there was no correlation between the mass and the period of a pendulum, based on lack of statistical difference in points based on the equivalency criterion (±2σ). finally , the period was measured for varying drop angles (10°, 20°, and 30°) utilizing constant string length (49.3 cm) and mass (50 g), and the data was plotted (table 7)(figure 2). based on an observable power trendline and an overall statistically significant difference in points using the equivalency criterion (±2σ), the string length appeared to have a positive interaction with the pendulum length. photogate was used to further investigate the impact of string length on the period of a pendulum for small swings, and the period for varying string lengths (30 cm, 60 cm, 90 cm, 120 cm, and 150 cm) utilizing constant mass (50 g) and drop angle (15 degrees) was recorded, and data was plotted (table8) (figure 4). a full mathematical model was generated, as the equation for the power line $y=0.2788 x^{0.43}$     passing through the data set with over all significantly different points based on the equivalency criterion was consistent with that of the mathematical model for a pendulum     $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$      $y=c^{2}$  these findings supported the hypothesis that string length is related to the period of a pendulum for small swings.