discussion and conclusions: 

	in this lab, we were investigating what factors affect the period length of a pendulum. the first factor tested was how the mass of the bob of the pendulum affects the period length. when looking at figure 1, one could conclude by the upward trend of the line that there is correlation between the mass and the period length. however, based on the standard deviation, or the error bars, there is not actually any relationship between the two. next, we tested how the length of the string affected the period length. as with figure 1, figure 2 also shows a positive trend in the data. the difference here, however, is that the string length definitely shows a relationship via the error bars. in lab 3, we investigated this relationship further and found that there is indeed a relationship between the string length and the period length. lastly, we investigated how the angle the bob is dropped from affects the period length. figure 3 also shows a positive slope, but the error bars indicate there is no relationship between the angle and the period length. based on all of our data, we can conclude that the string length is the only factor that actually affects the period length. the other factors have no effect on the period length so any correlation can be blamed on error. 

	during the lab, there were likely some errors. these errors could have occurred in the way we recorded the time of the period, which would be considered a random error.. in lab one, 3 of took the time of the period and then we averaged the times to give us the data point. this may cause error because we may not have started or stopped at the same time. at times, the times each of us got had a large range to them, which means that the average would be way off compared to what it should be. in order to prevent this error, either more measurements should have been taken and averaged, or a more precise tool, as the one used in lab 3, should be used. other errors included the calibration of the tape measure and the protractor that we used. these two errors can contribute to systematic error and can be prevented by using more precise tools in the future.