conclusion:

			throughout this experiment, there was one question that required several minor experiments to acquire the best answer. the entirety of this experiment was to determine which factors, mass, angle, or length, directly impacted the period of the pendulum. in order to specifically state which factor directly impacted the period of a pendulum, several experiments were conducted that differed in the independent and control variables. first, an experiment was utilized to determine the relationship between the pendulum’s length and period. the length was the independent variable; therefore, the values of length were varied to determine its relationship with the period. however, the pendulum’s mass and angle were held constant at 50g and 20 degrees respectively. table 5 contains the raw data collected from the experiment. from the data in this table alone, there appears to be a linear relationship between the independent and dependent variables. however, in order to display the relationship better, the data from table 5 was used to construct figure 1. this figure shows an almost linear relationship between the pendulum’s length and period as indicated by a r-squared value of .96889. also, the error bars were fairly small, which indicates a smaller range that the true value can lie in. furthermore, this means the data was accurate in terms of proving a relationship between the pendulum’s period and length. therefore, when determining which factors best impacts the pendulum’s period, the length appears to have the best impact. second, an experiment was conducted that had mass as the independent variable and length and angle as the controls. the measurements of the length and angle were 30cm and 20 degrees respectively while the mass varied in each trial. table 6 lists the raw data for the mass in each trial as well as the corresponding period that was measured with that mass. these data points are illustrated more clearly in figure 2 and show an r-squared value at .20604. this indicates a poor linear relationship between the mass and period of the pendulum. also, the error bars within figure 2 appear to be moderately large, which indicates that there is a greater range that the true value can lie within. thus, the error bars indicate less accurate data when measuring the relationship between mass and the period, especially when compared with the length versus period graph, which means there was little to no relationship present between the independent and dependent variables. therefore, the mass of the pendulum has little to no impact on the pendulum’s period as the data suggests. last, another experiment was performed that compared the relationship between the angle and the period. in this experiment, the length and mass were held as constants, with the measurements being 30cm and 50g respectively. table 7 lists the raw data collected from this particular experiment. from observing these points in table 7, there appears to be no relationship between angle and the period. figure 3 also supports the claim that there was no relationship between angle and the period. this was determined because the error bars were much larger in this graph, which means the true value lies within a large range. when compared to the length versus period graph, the error bars are much larger; therefore, this indicates the data was not as accurate due to this large range. also, there was no significant linear relationship either due to a r-squared value of .75. hence, there appears to be no relationship between the pendulum’s angle and period, which suggests the angle does not impact the pendulum’s period. in order to strengthen the argument previously made, the theoretical and mathematical model, which was acquired from the data, was used to better support this claim.

			the theoretical and mathematical models were used to strengthen the claim that the pendulum’s period was impacted by its length. the theoretical model used to show the period of the pendulum was . this explicitly shows the relationship between the period of the pendulum and length, which further strengthens the claim that the length did impact the pendulum’s period. another experiment was performed that varied the length of the pendulum again while the angle and mass were held constant. the raw data for this experiment can be viewed on table 8. due to the relationship between the pendulum’s period and length, a mathematical model from the data collected was produced. the mathematical model had a line of best fit as a polynomial compared to that of a linear or hyperbolic graph. figure 4 illustrates the graphical depiction of the data, which also contains the equation and r-squared value. because both models describe the period as a function of length, a length was used to determine how well the models related. when inserting a length of 50cm, the theoretical model displayed a period of 1.42 seconds; whereas, the mathematical model showed a period of 2.25 seconds. from these values, one may suggest that the mathematical model does not fit and support the theoretical model. while the mathematical model was not supported by the theoretical model, errors within the experiment may have ultimately impacted the results and overall mathematical model.

			the experiments described above had the capacity for random and systematic errors that could have impacted the data collected. in terms of random error, there were several instances where random error impacted the data throughout each experiment. the weights used in the experiment were labelled as 50g for example. thus, not weighing the mass to indicate the tenth or hundredth decimal place may have skewed the data because the true weight could have been below or above the labelled mass. therefore, calculating the degree of uncertainty as well as determining the mass from a scale can allow more accurate measurements of mass in other experiments. also, not holding the pendulum at a consistent angle in each trial could have disrupted the data. the angle could have been above or below the desired controlled value, which could possibly skew the data. diligence in determining the angle measurement could prevent this from occurring.  next, not holding the pendulum tightly during each trial could also impact the angle of the pendulum. again, this would impact the data by not maintaining the controlled variable at a consistent measurement. therefore, better execution can allow better results in other experiments. systematic error could have been present throughout these experiments also. one manner systematic error could have been present is in the form of the weight used. depending on how old the weights are, the wear and tear of the weights may have caused the mass to decrease over time. while errors impacted the results of the experiments, there were constraints that also prevented the ability to collect accurate data.

			there were several constraints throughout these experiments that impacted the results. first, the allotted time to conduct these experiments was too short. in order to provide a better argument for one’s claim, more data is required to concretely show the relationship between two variables or answer any research question. therefore, increasing the amount of time to do these experiments could aid in generating more accurate and better data. also, not being able to increase the length of the pendulum beyond what was possible in the lab could hinder the results. the pendulum apparatus was placed on the bench, where its length was limited by the floor. therefore, having the ability to increase the length of the pendulum without the pendulum touching the floor can allow for more data points, and ultimately provide more concrete evidence of the relationship between a pendulum’s period and length.