discussion and conclusions

in this lab, we investigated what different factors would impact the period of a pendulum for small swings. in lab 1, we tried to determine roughly how three different variables affected the period is  mass, length, and angle of release. based on figure 1, and graph 1 created from that data, it was determined that there was a positive relationship between the length of the pendulum and the period of the pendulum as the points loosely follow a line of best fit, and the variance of the period was noticeably large, with the period increasing by about .40 sec by the end although the length only increased by 20 cm. based on figure 2 and graph 2, it was determined that the mass of the pendulum and the period of the pendulum had no relationship as in graph 2, the data was quite scattered and didn’t follow a noticeable line of best fit, and the period only changed by .05 seconds over all the trials, despite a total mass change of 200 g (figure 2). based on figure 3 and graph 3, it was determined that the angle of release of the pendulum and the period of the pendulum had no relationship as in graph 3, the data was quite scattered and didn’t follow a noticeable line of best fit, and the variance in the period was small for all the trials, only changing by a total of .15 sec for 12 ° of change. in lab 2, we looked at the effect of error on the results of our data, repeating the experimental set-up from lab 1 except keeping all variable constant and taking 10 different times, then average them to find the mean and inputting that to find the standard deviation, which represents our uncertainty of our data. from here, error bars were put onto the original graphs. from this, we reevaluated our conclusions for all three variables with error now as a consideration, and for all three variables the original findings still stood is  mass and the angle of release still had no correlation, as their error bars heavily overlapped, suggesting that many of the values may have not changed by much or at all (graph 2 and 3), and length of the pendulum does affect the period, as even with the equivalence criterion taken into consideration, with taking two standard deviations to determine error, length would have little to no overlap, suggesting that the values are all considerably distinct and varied. with the relationships finally determined, in lab 3, we attempted to determine if the relationship between the length and the period was linear or nonlinear, then compare our findings to the theoretical mathematical model to determine how well it fits the model. based on the data in table 5 and the linear regression created in graph 4, it was determined that the relationship between the length and the period was nonlinear, with the period equaling about the square root of the length with a r^2 value of .9988, meaning the points closely follow the regression (graph 4). this closely matches the theoretical mathematical model, which describes that the $t =2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ , where l is the length and g is the acceleration due to gravity. however, our model did not take into consideration gravity or the value of 2hence the slight variation of the data points. furthermore, this model supports the conclusion that the angle of release and the mass don’t impact the period, as they are not even considered in the model for calculating the period. throughout lab 1 and 2, some error could have occurred with the nature of manual timing with a stopwatch, as there is a delay with having to click a stop watch, and the reference point for when the period started and stopped wasn’t defined, creating further variance. this could, and was, remedied in lab 3 with the use of the photogate, which used sensitive sensors to more accurate take time measurements without delay.