discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this experiment was to determine if applied force of a system changes the acceleration of the system.  this was set up as shown in figure 3, and our hypothesis was that increasing the hanging mass of the system will increase the acceleration.  our group obtained a positive linear relationship of applied force on the x side and acceleration on the y side (figure 1).  the relationship obtained through changing the hanging mass of the system, showing how acceleration changed, $a=5.1898 f - 0.0297$.  uncertainty was +/- .001.  theoretically, since $f=m a$, and since the mass of our system was .1824 kg, this makes $a=5.4825$, making the theoretical model $a=5.4825 f$.  our experimental model has a negative y-intercept, suggesting that acceleration would be negative when the force is zero.  this, however, is not realistic.  this discrepancy may be because, when making our model, we assumed friction to be negligible.  friction could become non-negligible when the hanging mass is small, messing up our model.  this friction on our system would also consistently cause us to overestimate the force generated (this error is systematic).  however, since force and acceleration are both overestimated equally, our model should not have been affected by this.  some errors could have caused our model to be skewed, however.  first, we did not consider the mass of the string in our model, and it would cause the acceleration to be underestimated slightly.  also, we took an average of the masses of the bobbers to estimate the mass of the system.  if they were slightly different, this could cause error in our model.  lastly, air resistance is considered negligible in our equation, but if it was in fact non-negligible, this would limit the generalizability of our results.

	groups 3 and 4 ran the same experiments as we did and obtained experimental models of $a=4.3797 f+0.002$ and $a=4.6131 f-0.499$, respectively (see figures 2, 4, and 5).  group 3’s y-intercept of .002 was much closer to the theoretical value of 0, suggesting that if their force was zero, their acceleration would be very close to zero, which is mostly correct.  the fact that their value is not zero is probably due to random error.  group 4’s y-intercept was similar to ours, yet farther away from the theoretical value, suggesting that their systematic error was larger than our group’s.  both groups 3 and 4 obtained slopes of around 4.5.  they are both farther away from the theoretical model than our group’s slope, yet the interesting part is that both groups obtained similar slopes.  this suggests that the mass of both of their systems was off.  however, they both obtained linear relationships, which support our hypothesis and prediction that acceleration would have a 1/m linear relationship with force.
