conclusion:
	This lab report is based off of 2 lab periods, lab 05 and lab 06. Both experiments dealt with Newton’s laws. During the first lab report we conducted an experiment using a hanging mass and a block. We were testing the research question, “how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes?” by conducting a model and carrying out the experiment. We weighed out the block, then weighed out the bobs that we used to place as the hanging mass. Our dependent variable was the acceleration, with the independent variable being the applied force. We found the control variables to be the total mass of the block and hanging mass to be 187.39 grams and the friction at 0 N. Our hypothesis was “the acceleration of a system is affected by the applied force”. The same materials, hypothesis, and variables were used for the second lab period also. In the second lab, we placed all of our data and findings on a whiteboard, and then presented it to the class. We listened to each presentation and then compared our data to two other groups. We took pictures of their white boards; our findings and graphics will be shown later in this report.
During the experiment we saw it fit to do 5 trials of our experiment. We measured the acceleration by using the provided materials is  the air track, gold cart, and the bobs. We used DataStudio’s rotary motion sensor to determine the cart’s velocity for each trial. The data obtained can be seen below labeled as Figure 1. Table of Data. We then used this data to create a graph of the Applied Force vs. Acceleration. For each trial we increased the amount of force being applied. You can find this figure labeled Figure 2. Applied Force vs. Acceleration Graph with Trendline and Equation. This graph contains error bars, though they are too small they are not visible. We found there to be an uncertainty of 0.001 m/s2. We found the uncertainty by calculating the error in DataStudio but it was smaller than the scale error, therefore, we used 0.001 m/s2. The trendline we found to have the highest R2 value was a power equation. Our equation turned out to be $y=4.548 x + 0.0387$. We compared this to the theoretical model that says, $a =\frac{f}{m}$ . This doesn’t make sense when compared to our experimental model. Our model came out to be multiplying the applied force by the total mass. 
a specific acceleration, with a mass. We needed to find “m”, the hanging mass amount. We setup the equation, $0.53=\frac{m 9.8}{0.33468}$ This lead us to the mass being 0.0181 kg, 18.1g. When testing our experiment with our given acceleration, we found the measured acceleration to be 0.49 which was within  .1 m/s2. 
We compared our data to two other groups; their white boards can be found below along with our whiteboard. Our whiteboard is labeled “Figure 3. Group 6 Whiteboard” while the other groups are labeled “Figure 4. Group 1 White Board” and “Figure 5. Group 5 White Board”. Group 1 had a similar hypothesis as us, but their experimental model was the opposite. Their equation led them to subtracting .0306, unlike our equation where we used addition. We chose to compare our data with theirs because it differed in equation, but their graph and hypothesis was very similar to ours. Group 5 also had a very similar hypothesis, graph, but their equation also contained subtraction. 
The experiment conducted over the two lab periods led to the data used to compare to other groups, and also led us to the ability to conduct the challenge problem. Our challenge problem was successful, showing our data was correct and informational. We were able to use our mathematical model and compare it to the theoretical model and create the graphs to show the trendline and equation. 