conclusion

the research question tested in this experiment was how the acceleration of a system changes when the applied force changes.  in this experiment hanging weights were used in a system to pull a car down a frictionless track.  the mass of the hanging weights was the independent variable, when more mass is added on to the hanging weights the applied force on the car increases.  this is because the force of gravity is stronger on objects with more mass.  as more mass was added on to the weights, and the applied force increased the acceleration of the car also increased due to the increased force moving the car.  the error bars in the acceleration vs. applied force graph are so small they do not show up on the graph, and there is no overlapping of error bars.  this means that the data collected is statistically significant and the data collected is valid.  the other groups that also performed this experiment found very similar data to ours, this supports our result and conclusion.  some differences were the possible errors that other groups came up with like air resistance and tension of the string.  group 5 had a mathematical model of $y=0.1579 x - 0.8576$ this group had one of the biggest differences in data compared to ours, most likely because their accelerations were so low for the first few trials compared to other groups, therefore their data does not refute ours.  another group had a mathematical model of $y=0.0043 x - 0.0162$ this was very similar to our model and helps support or data. the theoretical equation for this experiment would be $a=\frac{f}{m}$. the force being the weight of the bobbers multiplied to the force of gravity, and the mass being the mass of the entire system including the cart and bobbers. this equation the mathematical model found in this experiment supports the theoretical model because the results from each equation are very similar.  the theoretical model for acceleration with two forces is $a=\frac{f1+f2}{m}$, our mathematical model also supports this equation because the results from both equations are similar.  if the string in this experiment were heavy then the total mass of the system would increase while the applied force of the system would stay the same.  since mass in the denominator in the acceleration equation and there is no increase in force the acceleration would be lower with a heavy string.  friction on the track could have been an error that affected the acceleration, this was reduced as much as possible by using an air track.  the balance used to measure mass could have been off, this could have been reduced if multiple balances were used in order to get an accurate measurement.  another random error could be the mass of the bobbers.  the mass of the bobbers slightly varied and an average mass of all the bobbers was used when calculating the force on the system, this could have been reduced by weighing and keeping track of all of the masses of all the bobbers individually.  some of the constraints in this lab were not being able adjust results for air resistance, if air resistance were taken into account then the generalizability would be greater.  another constraint was instead of using exact weights, bobbers were used.  the bobbers often varied in mass by a small amount, if exact weights were used the generalizability would also increase.