conclusion:
The purpose of Labs 1-3 was to explore the effect of different variables on the period of a pendulum while implementing correct lab practices. The independent variables chosen for each experiment are length of string, mass of weight, and angle of release. The dependent variable for all experiments is the period of the pendulum. Each design plan is detailed in Figures 1,2,3 corresponding to each experiment. The data collected during each experiment is recorded in Figures 4,5,6 also corresponding to each experiment. Graphs of the data is also included as Figures 7,8,9.
In Lab 2 the focus was on the experimental errors; random and systematic. Random errors can be reduced by removing human interaction and by using the same materials for every experiment. Systematic error can be reduced by finding the degree of systematic error by running a single experiment multiple times and using that data, Figure 10, to determine the standard deviation which was used to create the error bars on each of the graphs, Figures 7,8,9. The error bars confirmed the prediction that the length of string affects the length of the period as it increases and the prediction that the mass of the weight does not affect the period. The error bars also denied the prediction that the angle of release would affect the period. The error bars showed little to no change in Figure 9 while the prediction stated that the increased angle would increase the period.
Lab 3 accumulated the data from Labs 1 and 2 to create a model for how close the data is to the model for calculating period of a pendulum. Both mass and angle did not affect the period, so they were negated and only length of string was used in gathering data. To further reduce error a photogate (Figure 11) was used to gather the data points in experiment 4 as shown in Figure 12. This data was then graphed (Figure 13) and a line of best fit was drawn using the power trendline option. The formula that was created is $y = 2.0168 x^{0.394}$ R^2 is 0.9987 as shown in Figure 13. The theoretical formula given was $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. The created formula was tested by inputting the recorded data points and finding the error from the formulated data points. The values were only approximately 0.1 seconds off showing that the created formula is accurate.
The length of the string impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings. The mass and angle of release do not impact the period of a pendulum for small swings. The graphs (Figures 7,8,9) show that with the error bars and the equivalency criterion, only length of string affected the period while mass and angle both show overlapping of the error bars which negates the measurements as being separate measurements. The formula created also supports this claim after it was tested and the measured and calculated values were extremely similar.