discussion 

the purpose of this lab experiment was to determine how the applied force effects the acceleration of a cart on a frictionless surface. in order to perform this experiment, we set up a controlled system that had a mass of 178.8 grams. the system consisted of the cart, a string, and 6 bobbers with each bobber weighing an average of 5.3 grams. the system ran on a frictionless air track. the dependent variable was the acceleration of the system, and the independent variable was the hanging mass (applied force). before the experiment was performed, a prediction was made on what the acceleration vs. applied force graph would look like presented in graph 1 is  predicted graph for acceleration vs. force (n) due to hanging mass. the hypothesis for this experiment was, “the greater the force, the faster the acceleration” and we predicted our results would confirm our hypothesis. the experiment was put through 6 trials and each trial one bobber was moved from the cart to the string to change the hanging mass, also known as the force (n). the data collection system used was datastudios. datastudios presented the slope of the best fit-line through the velocity vs. time points and in return has a certain amount of random error. the randomness was recorded as the standard deviation of the slope. the results recorded are presented in table 1 is  data obtained from datastudios system. through excel, we plotted this data on an acceleration vs. applied force graph presented in graph 2 is  acceleration vs. force (kg). the dots plotted were best fit with a linear curve and a mathematical model was obtained and is shown in graph 2. after all lab groups performed the experiment the information gathered was presented on white boards. we decided to compare our data to that of group sato and archer (shown in tables 2 & 3 is  data gathered from other groups). after reviewing the data gathered from these two groups it was confirmed that our data was accurate and supported our claim that the applied force does in fact effect acceleration. the theoretical model ($a=\frac{f}{m}$ can relate to our mathematical model ($y = m f$) because if the model is rearranged ($5 a =\frac{1}{m}$ ). there were two other forces present in this experiment that showed up in the experimental model and they are tension force present in the string and gravity pulling down on the mass. the mass of the system shows up with the force in our experimental model ($5 =\frac{1}{m}$ ). a non-massless string could affect the acceleration between the hanging mass and the cart by causing friction on the pulley. friction between the string and pulley would cause a slower acceleration in this case. after this experiment was complete, a second experiment was conducted, only this time the perimeters were different. our instructor gave us a set acceleration and a larger cart. the instructions given were to use our mathematical model obtained from lab is  05 to determine the force needed to achieve an acceleration of .555 . after using our mathematical model, we found the force need to create an acceleration of .555  was .01869 kg (3 bobbers and 10 paper clips). the slope datastudios gave us was y is 0.574 +/- 6.2e-4 with 0.574 being the acceleration of the system. 
through use of a controlled system, an experimental design plan, and by reviewing other groups data, it was able to be confirmed that applied force from a hanging mass does indeed effect acceleration. from this lab, a mathematical model was able to be obtained from data gathered through datastudios and graphed using excel. after reviewing the model presented to us from excel, it was able to be determined that the tension force in the string and gravity played a role in this experiment. also, there was a certain amount of uncertainty associated with the model due to random error within the data collecting system. with this mathematical model, we were then able to calculate the exact force needed to generate an acceleration of .555  using a larger cart on the frictionless air track.