discussion and conclusion

	the research question that is being investigated throughout the lab is which factor affects the period of a pendulum. the factors investigated include the angle of release, the mass of the bob, and the length of the string. in the first experiment, each factor was tested to determine if there was any correlation between the factor and the period of a pendulum. figure 1 and 2 both suggests that, neither, the angle of release nor the mass of the bob affects the period time. this can be inferred because the error bars of all the data points overlap, meaning that there is not a significant enough difference between values. figure 3, on the other hand, suggests a correlation between the length of the string and the period time because of the lack of overlap. error bars were configured based on the standard deviation displayed in table 7. in the third lab, the mathematical model for the period of a pendulum was found. figure 4 displays the average time of three trials using a photogate. the photogate is used to reduce the amount of uncertainty from the ±.5s of the stopwatch to ±.001s, making the measurements much more accurate and making it easier to find the mathematical model of the period of a pendulum. the power law trendline was used, because it went through all data points, also helping to determine the mathematical dependence between the length of the string and period time to be $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, where t is the period time, l is the length of the string, and g is the acceleration of gravity. one can also be reassured using figure 1 and 2, that angle of release and mass of the bob do not fit the model when looking at specific data values and the trendline. 

random errors that occurred during the lab were moving after measuring the angle, reaction time when stopping or starting the stopwatch, and error when measuring string length. systematic errors were mass of the weights not exactly 50g like labeled, scale not properly calibrated, buttons sticking on the stopwatch, and the marks being off on the protractor and/or measuring tape. as the experiment is repeated and more values are obtained, a more accurate average value can be determined to lessen the effect of these errors. measurement forms need to be properly calibrated before each trial to ensure proper readings. different measurement forms could also be used to reduce systematic errors like using a photogate in the place of a stopwatch. random error is more difficult to improve, so a machine could be built to take the human aspect out of the experiment. a constraint that limited the generalizability of the results is the make of the pendulum. there are a variety of different kinds of pendulums, but there was only one type available during the lab. since the string length was found to be the influencing factor, another constraint is that only one type and thickness of string was used.