discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this lab was to set up an experimental design in order to investigate if changing the applied force on a system changes the acceleration of the system and produce a mathematical model from the results.
discuss how the experiment and the resulting mathematical model address the research question. be sure to refer to the graph in your discussion.
the experiment supports the hypothesis that increasing applied force will increase the acceleration of the system. when the hanging weight was increased, thus the applied force was increased (table 2), and referring to table 1, can see acceleration was increasing as well. figure 1 supports this relationship, showing a positive direct relationship between force due to hanging mass and the acceleration of the system. it should be noted that error bars are included in figure 1, but are too small to be seen. the small sizes indicate there is not much variability with how the hanging mass affects the acceleration, it is consistent. if an equivalency criterion of ±2σ were used on figure 1, would show an overlap between the ranges of uncertainties, meaning the values may be the same, this can only be said with a 95% confidence level.
 the theoretical model for the acceleration of a system by a single force is $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$ . the enhanced theoretical equation for a system’s acceleration with more than one force is $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$.our experimental mathematical model from the experiment came out to be $y= 0.005 x - 0.0931$. the experimental model does not support the theoretical model because although it includes acceleration as y, and the force as the product of mass and the force due to hanging mass (0.005x), there is still the part of the equation, -0.0931, that isn’t accounted for in the the theoretical model. this makes the experimental model better suited to support the enhanced theoretical equation for more than one force. it has all the similar components, y is acceleration, 0.005x is the force/masssystem, and even accounts for forceexternal/masssystem as -0.0931. using our experimental mathematical model accounts for the direct relationship between the mass of the system and the force due to hanging mass as well as including external forces outside of the system to provide the acceleration for the system. 0.005x represents the direct relationship between the mass of the system and the force due to hanging mass, which addresses our research question is  the acceleration of a system changes in the same direction the direction the applied force is changed.
the results from both of these groups support my group’s claim that increasing applied force increases system acceleration. for the first group, the increase in weight (which is increasing the applied force of the hanging mass) is showing increasing acceleration. for the second group, the increase in applied force is showing an increase in acceleration. group 1 had an experimental model of $y=0.1579 x-0.857$ and group 2 had $y=0.0043-0.0016$. both of their experimental mathematical models are relatively similar to my group’s experimental model of $y= 0.005 x - 0.0931$ because their slope is small and their other forces present not due to the hanging weight are included at the end as a small negative number. however, comparing the numbers, group 1’s experimental model differs the most drastically from ours, their slope is several times larger than ours, as well as the other forces. this is a discrepancy that could disagree from our groups findings.
other present forces could be gravity and tension, which are represented in the experimental model as the value 0.0931.
 where the mass of the system shows up in the experimental model. lab 06 - newton’s laws part ii lab page 4

mass of the system shows up as slope in the experimental model. the slope of the experimental model is 0.005.

how a non-massless string connecting the hanging mass to the cart might affect uniform acceleration of the cart. 

a non-massless string connecting the hanging mass to the cart would not affect the uniform acceleration of the cart. the cart would still undergo uniform acceleration because the string’s mass would just add to the weight of the entire system. there would be a change in the acceleration, adding mass to the system would reduce the cart’s acceleration.

systematic errors present were the scale not being zeroed when mass was measured, the air track not being leveled, and the slope of the velocity vs time graph. the error from the scale was reduced by making sure the scale was zeroed before taking measurements. the error from the air track should be reduced in the future by making sure the track is leveled, not at an angle. datastudio created the slope of the velocity vs time graph using a best fit line, meaning it doesn’t hit all the points, those points left out of the slope leave a degree of uncertainty in the results. in order to account for this, a scale error of plus or minus the last digit in the slope is included.

constraints in this experiment limiting the generalizability of the results could be time and experience. this experiment took place over 2 hour lab days. this time was not spent completely devoted to carrying out the experiment, there was the time spent on pre-lecture and experiment set-up. depending on ones confidence level, there is pressure to finish on time and with accuracy which can lead to a rushed experiment with mistakes from human error. lack of time can also mean not double checking methods and work. this ties in with lack of experience. there was figuring out how to use the air track correctly, making sure the datastudio was recording the proper data, and trying to get readings from the datastudio because all of this was a new experience. so factoring in trying to figure out new equipment in a short time period, that doesn’t leave an ideal amount of time to actually focus on the experiment and the lesson at hand. any mistakes due to these factors can mean flaws in the results that limit its generalizability.