discussion:

the question that was investigated throughout these last few weeks was what variable impacts the period of a pendulum. the variables that we could choose were the angle at which the pendulum could begin swinging at, the mass of the pendulum, and the length of the string that the pendulum was attached to. based on the results that were gathered, angle and mass have no affect on the period. the only variable that does affect the period is the length of the string. we were given the mathematical model equation of a pendulum (which was $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ and asked to see if we could come up with the equation based on our data. based on our collected data, the equation that was derived is $y=2.0155x^{0.4838}$. this equation was checked over by the ta and was considered a successful recreation of the mathematical formula. a linear equation was not chosen because based on the r squared value, it was determined that a power equation was a better fit than the linear equation. the r squared value that we obtained was .9999 which was greater than the r squared value with a linear fit. 

random errors were present throughout the experiment. an example or random error was when we had to use the stopwatches to measure the time of a period rather than having something measure it for us. this is human error so there is no way to improve it, unless an automated instrument was to be used. the photogate was used in week 3 to try and reduce the amount of random human error that was associated with the equation, which is probably why our equation from week 3 was much more accurate than the one taken from week one. while no systematic errors were present during the experiment, an example of a systematic error would be forgetting to calibrate the scale before taking a measurement on it, which would cause the scale to possibly read incorrectly by saying that the weight is off by the miscalibration every time. to make sure this error didn’t happen, we made sure to calibrate the scale before each use. 

based on our experiments, the biggest impact of the pendulum period was seen when the string length was varied. the other variables (mass and angle) did not affect the pendulum period enough to be counted as such. so it can be concluded that out of the 3 tested variables, the length of the string is the one that affects the pendulum period.