discussion and conclusion 

the research question was as follows: how does the applied force on a system impact the acceleration of the system?  

conducting the first experiment aided in determining the relationship between the applied force on a system and the acceleration of a system. this was done by conducting seven trials in which the applied force on the system was varied and the total mass of the system was kept constant. the data for this experiment is given in table 1. the graph of this data is given in figure 1. 

after analyzing figure 1, it was determined that the applied force on a system and the acceleration of a system have a direct relationship. as the applied force on a system increases, the acceleration of the system increases as well. a curve fit was used to determine that a linear model best fits the data, with an  value of .9827. the mathematical model derived from figure 1 is $y=4.369 x + 0.0599$. 
when comparing the date collected and analysis from two other groups, it was apparent that both groups derived similar mathematical models to that of our group. group odo had a mathematical model that was more closely related numerically, however both groups came to the conclusion that a linear model best fit the data. such similarity with the mathematical models of others groups supports my group’s claim. 
the experimental model derived from figure 1 is $y=4.369 x + 0.0599$. the theoretical model is $a =\frac{f}{m}$  our experimental model is similar to the theoretical model in that they are both linear relationships. our derived experimental model has a y-intercept, while the theoretical model does not. it is plausible that this difference was caused by the impact of air resistance, friction of the pulley, and the external force of the air on the system as it moves. the slope of our model represents one divided by the total mass of the system (1/m). 
in the case that a non-massless string was used, the acceleration of the system would no longer be uniform. as the cart moves, the length of the string increases, thus the applied force from the hanging weights would increase. the applied force on the system would be constantly increasing, and since acceleration and applied force are directly related, the acceleration would be constantly increasing as well. 

possible systematic errors during the experiment include the scale not being properly calibrated and the impact of the external force of air on the moving cart. the systematic error from the scale could be reduced by using a digital scale that would provide more accurate measurements. the external force of the air on the cart could have given the cart some external acceleration.  a possible random error during our experiment could be the method in which the acceleration of the cart was determined. in table 1 when the applied force was varied, only one measurement for acceleration was taken for each applied force. additionally, the same individual controlled the computer software that calculated the acceleration, thus the reaction time in pressing start and stop could be slightly off. in order to reduce this error, multiple trials for each applied force should be conducted, and then an average acceleration can be calculated from these values. 

possible constraints in this experiment include the length of the string used and the amount of force that could be applied to the system. in the case of the length of the string, we were constricted the length of the string given, thus the cart could only travel a distance equal to that of the string, even though the length of the string is a possible constraint, it was found that the distance traveled by the cart does not impact the relationship between the acceleration and applied force on a system. in the case of the amount of force applied to the system, we were limited to the number of bobbers given. since we were only given eight bobbers, our experimental model and analysis is valid only for an applied force up to .37632n.