discussion and conclusion:

the research question being investigated was what impacts the period of a pendulum.

the first experiment tested whether or not the angle of release affected the period of a pendulum. it was discovered that, assuming the angle is small enough, the angle of release has no effect on the period of the pendulum, contrary to the prediction and hypothesis. the slope of the trendline was 0.005, which is essentially zero. also, the equivalency criterion shows that the times measured are all essentially the same value, and therefore the angle of release has no effect. the second experiment tested whether or not the mass of the weight affected the period of a pendulum. through the experiment, it was determined that the mass has no effect on the period either, also contrary to the hypothesis and prediction. the slope of the graph is 0.0006, and the equivalency criterion can be used here, too, to show that the periods measured are all essentially equivalent. the mass has no effect. the final experiment tested the effect of the length of the string on the period of a pendulum. here, it was discovered that there was a relationship between the two variables. the graph shows a power relationship between the two variables. the uncertainties related to each data point collected also do not overlap, and therefore it can be said with certainty that they are not essentially the same value. after all of the experiments, it was determined that, at small angles of release, the only thing affecting the period of a pendulum is the length of the pendulum.

the theoretical model of the period of a pendulum is is  , with t being the period in seconds, l being the length in centimeters, and g being the gravitational force on the pendulum, with a value of 980 cm/s^2. the equation determined experimentally was $y=0.2671$. after plugging in the 980 value for g, and after determining the numerical value associated with 2, the equation can be rewritten as  .2007(). the .2007 value and the .2671 value determined experimentally are similar, although not precisely identical. the l value is raised to the .5 power which, when compared to the .4458 power identified through the experiment, is found to be similar as well. since the mass of the object and the angle of release, assuming it is small enough, have no effect on the period of the pendulum, there is no reason to include them in either the theoretical or the experimental models.

one random error is the use of the hand-held timer used for the first 2 experiments. since it is difficult to start and end the timer exactly when the pendulum is dropped or when it reaches its climax, then the length of the period would be incorrect. this could be addressed in three ways to reduce the random error of the timing. one way would be to use equipment to measure the period instead, such as was done with the third experiment. this method was exact to up to .001 seconds and would help reduce the error. another way would be to repeat the experiment several times from each angle, and then take the average of the data. since date trends towards the mean, this would ensure a closer value than was recorded with only one trial. the last way would be to record the length of time it took for the pendulum to complete 10 periods, and then dividing this answer by 10. since the angle was found to have no effect on the length of the period, and since each time the pendulum completes a new period the angle decreases, then the data divided by 10 would give an accurate representation of the length of one period. this change would give the timer more time to judge when the period completed a cycle and therefore could click to stop the time with more accuracy. another source of possible random error would be in the use of the measuring tape to measure the length of string. trying to line the string up exactly with the measuring tape proved difficult, although it didn’t skew the results one way every time, as would be the case if it were systematic error. to try and reduce the effects of this on future experiments, a ruler should be used instead, as the string could be wrapped taught around it to ensure that the measurement would be more accurate.

the main constraint on this experiment is the fact that it is only applicable for small angles of release, at less than about 20 degrees displaced from the vertical. therefore, in experiments involving larger angles of release, the experimental and theoretical models found might not be able to be applied generally.