discussion and conclusion



the research question investigated during this experiment was “what impacts the period of a small pendulum swing?”. the question was addressed by performing four different experiments throughout three labs using three different variables and two different types of measurement.

in lab 1 is  introduction to experimental design, the research question was addressed by performing three experiments, testing the individual effects of string length, mass, and string angle on the swing period of a small pendulum. the data was graphed, and trendlines and error bars were inserted to show any potential relationships between the variables. in figure 1, period vs. string length, the data formed a linear pattern, with an r squared value of 0.9654, and a slope of 0.0105. the string length affected the period the most, due the largest slope and greatest range of periods obtained. a longer string length results in a longer period. in figure 2, period vs. mass, the data points oscillated randomly, without forming any discernible pattern. there was no relationship between mass and period. in figure 3, period vs. string angle, the data formed a linear pattern, with an r squared value of 0.9654, and a slope of 0.0072. the angle affected the period less than string length because the slope and the range was smaller. a larger angle results in a longer period, but to a lesser extent. 

in lab 2 is  introduction to error analysis, the research question was addressed by determining and utilizing ranges of uncertainty in measurements and exploring experimental errors, refining the data found in experiment 1. the standard deviation was calculated and applied to each graph as error bars. for tables 5-7, the measure of uncertainty was found by setting up a new pendulum with constant mass, angle, and string length, and taking 10 period measurements. the standard deviation for this set, or how much the data points vary from the mean, was calculated as 0.134. the standard deviation was then visually doubled to ensure a 95% confidence level. for figure 1 is  period vs. length, the 2σ error bars did not overlap, but continued upwards, so the relationship was consistent with previous patterns. for figure 2 is  period vs. mass, the error bars almost completely overlapped, so the relationship was consistent with previous patterns. for figure 3 is  period vs. string angle, the error bars also did not overlap, continuing upwards consistent with previous patterns. 

in lab 3 is  creating mathematical models, the research question was addressed by determining which of the earlier experiments had evidence that a certain variable impacted the period. figure 1 is  period vs. string length, had a clear linear effect and unrestricted range, indicating a relationship. figure 2 is  period vs. mass did not have any effects. figure 3 is  period vs. string angle was previously determined to have a pattern, but was restricted to above 15 degrees only, so the impact was not evidence backed. another experiment testing string length was set up, this time using a photogate to improve accuracy. figure 5. period vs. string length was made from the data collected, and shown to have a much lower standard deviation of 0.001, with a more accurate power trendline to describe the relationship. this results in the claim that only string length impacts period, and does so in a power curve trend. a mathematical model was made using the data.

the theoretical mathematical model given was  $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. the data fits with this model because figure 5 is  period vs. string length forms a power curve, fitting the equation $t = 0.5404 l^{0.2909}$. this is the same $t = l^{0.5}$ format as the theoretical mathematical model. figure 1 is  period vs. string length formed a linear curve due to the much larger estimation of uncertainty, which led to inaccurate pattern predictions. figure 2 is  period vs. mass had no pattern, so no trendline could be made to create an equation for a model. figure 3 is  period vs. string angle had a linear trendline, fitting the equation $t = 0.0072 l + 1.7763$. this did not fit the theoretical model at all. so, the data from table 7 was the most accurate.

for each experiment, only 5 data points were gathered, as seen in tables 4-8. this greatly increases random error and decreases accuracy. the timer was also not consistently stopped at the same point in the pendulum swing, resulting in random error. both of these errors can be reduced by performing additional trials. 

the experimental math model did not perfectly match the the theoretical model because only 5 data points were gathered, increasing random error and decreasing accuracy. other concepts such as gravity and air resistance were also not accounted for, furthering decreasing accuracy. a small pendulum was also used, so the results might not be applicable to larger objects.