discussion and conclusion 

in this lab we determined what (weight, length, or angle of release) had an effect on how many seconds it take for a pendulum to make a full rotation. we isolated one variable each and tested it keeping the other two constant. we came to the conclusion that weight had no effect on the rate that a pendulum swings (page 2 mass graph), according to our error bars you will see a primarily straight slope. this indicates that there is no relation between the weight of the pendulum and the rate at which it swings. possible systematic errors could be chips or incorrect calibrations of the weight. random errors include the human eye being .1 off of 180 degrees or being slightly angled to the left or right. another random error could be error with hitting the stop watch on time. we could check the weights for cracks and chips and recalibrate them. to reduce random errors, we could take more data points and take an average. 

next, we have angle of release. results concluded that angle of release and rate had no correlation. if you look at the graph (page 1 time of period vs angle of release) the slope of the line was 0.0004 indicating that there is almost no change. possible systematic errors could include errors in calibration with stop watches making them a certain percentage off. possible random errors include incorrect timing of stop watches by the user and being slightly off when it came to lining up with the protractor.  we can take more trials to reduce random errors, and recalibrate stop watches to reduce systematic error.  

finally, we have length of pendulum vs time. we concluded that the length of the pendulum has an effect on the time it takes to reach a period. we concluded that the longer the length, the longer it takes for a pendulum to complete a period. we support this with graphs 3 and 4. graph fours time was taken by a photogate reducing random error due to stopwatches. possible systematic errors could include incorrect calibration with the photo gate. random errors include being slightly off with the protractor. we can reduce future random errors by creating a mechanism to drop the pendulum for us or increasing the amount of trials. to reduce systematic error, we can ensure calibration of the photogate.

in conclusion we found that mass and angle of release have no effect on the period of a pendulum. we concluded that the length of the pendulum causes the period to be slower. the longer the string the longer it takes for a pendulum to complete a full period.