conclusion:
the point of this lab was to explore three variables and discover which of the variables will impact the time of oscillation of a pendulum for small swings. each variable was tested while the other two were constant. the first variable tested was the length of string. it did impact the time of oscillation of the pendulum as expected. the graph or data table showed the longer the string was the longer it took to complete one oscillation. likewise, the shorter the string was the less time it took to complete the oscillation. the next variable tested was the angle of release. this should not have affected the time of oscillation however, the data in the angle table showed larger angles resulted in longer time of oscillations. this happened because the angles measured were drastically different and not small like they should have been. the last variable tested was mass. mass did not affect the time of oscillation. the data showed the numbers stayed relatively the same.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is the frequency equals two times the square root of the length of the string divided by the acceleration due to gravity. the experimental value obtained was within a tenth of the actual value. in the experiment acceleration was not taken into account so it would be unlikely to obtain the theoretical value. mass and angle while tested did not affect the swing time and they are also not included in the theoretical equation.

some errors are the measurement tools such as the stopwatch or tape measure. these are random errors. they are based off human interaction. the determined values using the tape measure were inconsistent. the stopwatch would be delayed obscuring the time based off the person who oversaw it. a systematic error could have been the balance, while it would have given consistent results, there is still a degree of uncertainty in the accuracy of the scale. ways to reduce error could be having the same person on the stop watch, let the pendulum swing about ten times and divide by ten to get the time for one swing.

constraints in this experiment would be the technology. the use of more complex technology would result in more accurate results. the tools given restricted the capabilities and the data. another constraint was there was no way to keep the swing in two dimensions, there would be occasions where the pendulum wanted to explore the third-dimension, obscuring results.