The purpose of this lab was to determine how the force of the hanging mass affected the acceleration of the system.
The resulting mathematical model from the graph was determined to be $a = 4.9362 f - 0.0102$. This calculated equation can be used to predict experimentally the acceleration of the cart, string, and bob system before the acceleration is calculated experimentally. The model proves that the acceleration of the system is directly proportional to the hanging force applied to the system. The line formed from graphing the acceleration vs the hanging force is linear, so graphically the relationship is shown to be directly proportional as well.


The two other groups data taken during the lab support the data determined in this experiment. All three slopes are incredibly close to each other, as they are all within the range of 4.9 to 5.3. It makes sense that there is a slight difference in this value because all three of the experiments contained systems with slightly different masses. The mass for figure 1 was .1877 kg, and the mass for figure 2 was .1862 kg, whereas the mass for this experiment was .1886 kg. The y intercept for all of these systems was an incredibly small negative number, with values between -.001 and -.07. Again, this value likely varies from group to group due to the fact that the mass of each group was slightly different. Also, since the slope is based on a best fit line, the y-intercept isn’t necessarily the correct value, and is likely to vary a lot from group to group.
The theoretical model of the hanging mass acceleration is $a = \frac{m_{hanging} g}{m_{sys}} +\frac{F_{opposing}}{M_system}$. With the values determined from this experiment, the theoretical model reads closer to $a = 5.3022 m +f$. The theoretical and experimental models are very similar, with the slope being off by only .4. Since the force of friction isn’t calculated out in the theoretical, it can’t be determined exactly how similar the two are, although it makes sense that the outside forces are very low, since the air track essentially gets rid of all friction. Therefore, it is fitting that the experimental value is       -.0102. 
    There are outside forces acting on the system. Regardless of the air track, there is still always some friction acting on the system that will slow it down. Therefore, the force of friction affects the system. Additionally, as the cart travels across the track, air is pushing against it, and so air resistance is also a force acting against the cart. These two forces would appear in the force opposing part of the theoretical model, or as the y-intercept of the experimental model.
    The mass of the system appears in the experimental model as part of the slope. The inverse of the system is used to calculate the slope, which experimentally gave the value of 4.9362. The inverse of the mass of the system also is used to determine the y-intercept, as it is technically the force opposing the system divided by the mass of the system. The value discovered experimentally was.         -.0102.
    The non-massless string would affect the uniform acceleration of the cart only in the manner of it would add weight to the mass of the system. The mass of the system includes all 8 bobs, the cart, and the string. If the string had mass, it would add weight to that system, but ultimately wouldn’t affect the movement of the system since it would travel along with it. It has already been considered as part of the system.
One systematic error that could have been present would be with the calibration of the balance. If it were slightly off and not zeroed correctly, then the masses recorded would not be accurate. This could be reduced in future experiments by recalibrating the balance. If the balance was found to be incorrect, then whatever value it was off by could be subtracted or added to the experimental values to remedy the error. Another systematic error would be in the computer program used, as if that wasn’t calibrated correctly, then the measured velocity values would be incorrect and thus the acceleration would be off. This could also be fixed by recalibrating the device, and whatever value it was off by could then be added to the values calculated experimentally. A random error that was reduced in this experiment was how the measured accelerations changed slightly from trial to trial, despite there being no change in the mass hanging or in the mass of the system. This random error was reduced by doing 3 trials of each hanging mass, and then the average of those trials being used for the experimentally determined acceleration, since multiple trials will tend towards the mean and therefore more accurate value.
This experiment was done using an air track and pulley that reduced nearly all friction from the system. Therefore, the experimental model cannot be used universally, but rather only in cases with low or nonexistent friction. It could also only be used with a system of the same mass as the one used in this case. The theoretical model could be used more universally. However, in order to do so, the mass of the system and the forces opposing that system would all have to calculated out before the model could be valid.


