discussion and conclusion



	in this experiment, we were looking to see what the correlation was between the iv of applied force would have on the dv of acceleration. the first experiment we did 8 trails changing the mass of the object. we started with 7 fish bobbers on the golden cart and one connected to the fish line that was hanging from the pulley system of the air track. the hanging fish line with the bobber was the applied force (fnet) and the air track software was used to record the acceleration of the cart. the mass of both the cart and applied force (hanging fish bobbers) were recorded. after the first trail was complete, a bobber from the cart was taken off and added to the end of the fishing line. so, the mass of the cart decreased and the applied force (fnet) increased. this was continued for 8 trails. the fnet was plotted in the vertical axis and the acceleration was plotted in the x axis. our results proved that our prediction that acceleration would increase as applied force increased. the graph showed a linear correlation between the two variables. the slope given by the linear fit from excel was 4.7166. this value had a 18.57% difference from the total mass used which was .04 kg. the equation $f_{net}= m a$ was used because it is the linear form of $y=m x$. the total mass is the slope. the y intercept given from the linear fit was .0938. theoretically the y-intercept should be 0, because of the law of inertia rule that no net force acting on the object would mean that there would be no acceleration. because the y-intercept of the linear fit was .0938, this more than likely means there was a small source of error. other forces need to be considered then the hanging mass to be considered when comparing to the theoretical model. these forces are friction and tension. also, the systematic error of the scale was a .05 error. systematic errors involving the air track software could be a factor as well.  also, any random errors that happened like the string fell out of the pulley system, then the procedure was retested.  the second experiment we did was being able to find the mass of the hanging string with bobbers when acceleration was given. the equations use is in the picture below. 







the mass 1 (m1) was found by weighing the red cart. as you can see we used the formula $m2= \frac{m1 a}{g-a}$. the acceleration in the numerator was the value given. by using this equation, we found out that m2 should be 0.0186767 kg. we weighed this mass out using bobbers and 2 paperclips. this mass was added to the end of the string and then the experiment was tested. the test value we got was .557m/s^2. using the calculation, a/m1 x 100 we got .557/.5798 *100 which is 96.37%. if you subtract the 96.37% by 100 you get your % off from the given value. 100-96.37 which is 3.63%, so our difference was 3.63% which is less then 10%. so, our calculations were very accurate. in conclusion, applied force and acceleration have a linear correlation. some restraints in this experiment were that we did not have a very accurate scale. an analytical scale would have provided much more accurate measurements.  also, time was a constraint. to have the most accurate data you need more data. because we were limited on time we could not do as many trails