discussion and conclusions
the purpose of labs 05 and 06 were to investigate whether or not and why force applied affects acceleration of a system. in our experiment, our system included a cart which ran on an air track, various bobs which hung either on the cart or the end of the string and pulled the cart, and the string that connected the bobs and the cart. the force applied in this system was the force of gravity pulling the mass of the bobs down. for each trial, we simply moved a bob from the cart to the hanging mass. a sensor lies next to the pulley to determine the acceleration of the system. from our data collected (table 2), we created a graph (graph 1) and our mathematical model, which is $y=4.346 x - 0.1698$. our r2 value is 0.7829. using our graph and model, we are able to see how well force applied affects acceleration, which is in a positive linear relationship. 
in lab 06, newton’s laws part ii, we presented our findings and also collected the findings of other groups. 
all the other groups that we viewed, including these supported our claim that applied force and acceleration have a positive linear relationship. there were not really any discrepancies.
the theoretical model for this experiment is $a =\frac{f_{hanging} + f_{unknown}}{m_{sys}}$ comparing to our mathematical model, $y=4.346 x - 0.1698$, the y intercept, which is -0.1698 correlates to unknown force/total mass, and 4.346 correlates to applied force or hanging force/total mass. this is from  $a =\frac{f}{m}$ . using our measured total mass, which was 0.1892, theoretically our coefficient should have been 5.285, and our y – intercept should have been 0, which were outside forces acting on the system. our mathematical model compares moderately well with the theoretical model, as our r2 is only 0.7829, but there is a lot of error, as seen in our one point that completely deviates our linear fit. our error bars are very small though, and this is good. we used the uncertainties provided by us from the data studio measurements. to elaborate further on errors present in our experiment, we discussed a variety of unknown forces that could have affected our results. first is possible friction on the air track that is very small, but plausible, there could also be a very small amount of air resistance as well for the hanging mass. the string also could have had a small mass that contributed to the hanging mass. the air track could also be off balance and not completely level, causing the cart to move slower or faster than it should’ve been. furthermore, our calculations were done assuming g is 9.8, however g varies with elevation, therefore the g value in cincinnati could be slightly off of 9.8, affecting our results. the other forces that were present are shown in our mathematical model as the y-intercept. the mass of the system shows up as the hanging force, only as the inverse.
if the string had significant mass, then the hanging mass would change as the string gets pulled down, and therefore change the acceleration. acceleration would no longer be constant. 
the data studio program that was used to measure the acceleration also could have been faulty (which was actually the case for us to why one of our points did not get measured even though we did the trial multiple times). this could be a systematic error if all of our points had this error, however it only happened on one of our points, so i would classify it as random error. faulty equipment goes for everything including the air track, the scale, and the measuring tape that we used, but if there was a systematic error we did not detect it in the equipment. lastly, there will always be random error in our measurements from human measurement. to reduce this random error, we had multiple people do our readings and scale measurements. we also ran more than one trial for each mass and averaged the trials for an average acceleration, which we graphed. 
there were no constraints on our experiment other than the fact that we had one point in our graph that was “0”, causing our overall linear fit to be skewed. even though we did it multiple times to see if we got zero acceleration, it shouldn’t have been the case and we should’ve gotten an acceleration. we assumed the system had no acceleration because the mass in the cart and the hanging mass were equal. data studio messed up our point. that was our only constraint.