discussion and conclusion

	the research question for this experiment asked what affected the period of a pendulum for small swings. three independent variables were tested individually to see which ones affected the dependent variable, the time it took for one full period to occur. these variables were the mass of the pendulum bob, the length of the string, and angle of release.

	the experiment with mass as the independent variable concluded that the mass of the pendulum bob does not affect the period. as shown by table 1.3, the times recorded for the period were all within a range of 1.38-1.47 seconds, despite the varying masses of 50 grams, 90 grams, and 130 grams for the pendulum bobs. figure 1.3 displays this lack of correlation between mass and period times, with data points scattered throughout the graph and lines of best fit unable to match up with all their points. this data therefore confirmed the hypothesis that the mass of the pendulum bob does not affect period times.

the experiment with length as the independent variable concluded that the length of the string affects the period of the pendulum. the times listed tables 1.1 and 1.4 show how the longer the length of the string, the longer the time it took for one full period to occur. figures 1.1 and 1.5 support this hypothesis, with the first graph showing distinctions between each length and the times that were recorded for its trials, and the second graph showing error bars and uncertainties for each time but with a noticeable increase in the time it took for a period to occur as the length increased. this evidence thus confirms that the length of the string does play a role in affecting period times for a pendulum.

the experiment with angle of release as the independent variable concluded that the angle of release does not affect the period of the pendulum. table 1.2 lists the times recorded for the varying angles, and when comparing them it is noted that despite the differences in the angles, many of the times were within range of one another. figure 1.2 confirms this with a graph of the angles versus time, with error bars showing there is little overlap between times that were recorded for the trials of individual angles. this confirms the hypothesis and prediction that the angles of release would have no effect on the time it took for one full period to occur. 

the only factor which affected the period of a pendulum swing was the length of the string. the theoretical equation for the period is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. this corresponds with our data and is a good predictor for what the times would be for varied string lengths. 
