The purpose of this experiment was to answer the question, “How does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes?” Our results indicate that applied force and acceleration of the system of a positive relationship, but following a power relationship, not a linear one. The r2 value for our power trend line is .9918, whereas a linear trend line only had .9792. The importance behind this distinction is that our data suggests that acceleration increases at increasingly higher forces. This is because the power of x is 1.0061 (Figure 1). This also indicates that accelerations would change at very slow rates as force was increased. The reason that moving bobs to the m2 side of the system changed applied force is because the applied force is equal to the mass of the bobs times gravity. In this system, as the mass of m2 increased, so did the applied force, and so did the acceleration. 
Other groups also performed the same experiment, but got different results. Group 2 in Lab 1051-017 got results that supported a linear model. Their r2 value was .9998, which is very strong (Figure 2). Similar to us, their data indicates a positive relationship, but overall their data does not support ours since they determined a strong linear relationship and we determined a strong power relationship. 
In conclusion, further investigation is necessary before making any broad claims. This is because of the conflicting data sets present. Further investigation would yield more data, which would help reduce the amount of human error present such as the when recording mass with the triple beam balance. This produced random error since the total mass of the system was reported differently by different groups. Using a digital scale to record mass, and using the exact same cart and bobs across all trials would reduce this error. In addition, there was a discrepancy between groups on how to release the cart. Our group set the cart on the 1m mark, then turned on the air, and let the cart move down the track. Other groups set the cart on the 1m mark, held the cart, turned on the air, and let the air run for a few seconds before letting the cart go. This small difference in technique probably led to increased air flow between the cart and track, leading to less friction for these groups. Although repeated trials would help, the constraint of friction is always present. In addition, this experiment is constrained by the fact that the string will always have mass. This is mass that affects the mass off the system but is separate from m1 and m2. 