discussion and conclusion



over the course of the three lab sessions, various variables were tested and observed to answer one question. what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? mass of a bob, angle of release, and length of a string (the independent variables) were all manipulated and observed in order to determine a relationship (or lack thereof) between the certain variable and the period of a small pendulum (the dependent variable).

predicted as per table 1, and observed and recorded as per table 5, as the mass of the bob increased, the period of the pendulum did not change. in order to ensure that only the mass of the bob was being accounted for and was in actuality the reason for change (or no change) in the pendulum’s period, control variables were set. the control variables for this part of the experiment were the angle of release (set at 20°) and the length of the string (set at 48 cm). after the experiment was set up to complete five different trials and the data was recorded, the results were graphed along with the error bars (figure 1). the larger error bars, with major overlapping fragments, visibly show that there is no significant relationship between the mass of the bob and the period of the small pendulum. based on simply these results, the initial testable hypothesis and prediction stand to be accurate and are supported by lab 01’s work.

another experiment was done to test the second independent variable, the angle of release. predicted as per table 1, and observed and recorded as per table 6, as the angle of release increased, the period of the small pendulum also did not change. with a similar testable hypothesis and prediction, this experiment was set up in a similar fashion to the one described above. in order to ensure that only the angle of release was being accounted for/manipulated, the control variables of mass (set to 50 g) and length of the string (set to 48 cm) were held stable throughout. five trials with differing angles were completed and the data was recorded to create another graph with error bars (figure 2). just as the previous graph, the error bars show to be extremely large and overlap one another, displaying that there is no visible relationship between the angle of release and the period of the small pendulum swing. 

the last experiment(s) that were run circulated around the last variable left to test, the length of the string. the first experiment under this variable, was set up similarly to the two above, with the control variables being mass (set to 50 g) and the angle of release (set to 20°) (table 3). again, five trials with altered lengths were completed and the data was recorded and compiled (table 7), and then graphed with error bars (figure 3). this graph, unlike the previous ones with much smaller error bars, does show a relationship between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum. specifically, as the length of the string increases, the period of the pendulum also increases. to ensure accuracy, this experiment was done once again during lab 03, but instead of an individual recording the periods, an online system known as the photogate system recorded the data (table 8). the graph resulting from this second experiment showed the same results, and a graphed trend line and r2 value confirmed the same positive trend (figure 4).

from the data and results above, specifically from those collected via the photogate system, the theoretical mathematical model was developed. the theoretical model consists of the equation $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ (as seen below), where l is the length of the string and g is acceleration due to gravity. from here,  the experimental formula (which is also stated below), where c1 and c2 is a constant, and x is the length of the string was formed. theoretical formula is  ; experimental formula is  $y=c1c2$. using these formulas and the graph, it was determined that the graph of the length of the string versus the period of the pendulum is actually non-linear. the curve that best fits the data is a power curve, which is represented by $y=a n$. in this specific experiment (the experimental model), the curve of best fit is $y=0.2636x^{0.4307}$. 

although the majority of the entire experiment did run smoothly, there were definitely random and systematic errors that contributed to possible skewed data. one of the main sources of random error could have been the lack of accuracy and precision from an individual when starting and stopping the stopwatch to measure the period. human beings are innately inconsistent and therefore, can be inaccurate between multiple measurements. in addition, another factor of random error could have resulted from inaccurate measurements when measuring the mass (improperly using a scale), angle of release (improperly using a protractor), and length of the string (improperly using a tape measure). all of these altering lab techniques very likely caused random error during the experiment. as for systematic error, the main sources were most likely an imbalanced pendulum swing caused by an uneven table, or incorrect markings on the measuring devices (scale, protractor, and tape measure). since most often these types of errors are not looked after, it produces a consistent ‘systematic error’ when observing and recording specific data points. 

a few steps could be taken to reduce error during the experiment. random error could be reduced by ensuring that the same person takes the stopwatch timings each time. in addition, the person controlling the stopwatch should countdown from three, so that the person releasing the pendulum releases it at the same time. to add, a photogate system could be used to record the timings so that recordings are more accurate. another person should also be taking all of the measurements for each respective tool, scale, protractor, and tape measure to ensure consistency. similarly, systematic error could be prevented by using reputable companies from which to buy the measuring tools so that the readings are as accurate as possible. also, a level should be used to check the evenness of the surface that the pendulum swing sits on to make sure it is properly aligned.

in addition to the error discussed above, a few constraints could have limited the generalizability of the results. most obviously, there was a limited amount of time in which data could be recorded, and therefore, only five repetitions were done for each experiment. the lack of time prevented a bigger sample size, possibly showing only a small portion of the actual results. more data points could have led to different conclusions, and hence, alter the basis of the discussion. in addition, the pendulum set up needed to be altered many times manually during the duration of the lab, and therefore could have caused a skewed sample set. 

overall, although there were many factors contributing to the thoroughness of this lab, the observations and results served their purpose and demonstrated the relationships questioned in the initial research problem. after multiple experiments, data collection, and analysis, the correlations between the mass of the bob, angle of the release, or the length of string and the period of the pendulum have been confirmed.