discussion and conclusion:

	the questions that were investigated in this lab questioned if mass (g), length of string (cm), and angle of release (°) affected the time it takes for a pendulum to complete a single period. from figure 1 and figure 2 it can be determined there is no relationship between mass and period length and also no relationship between angle of release and period length. however, from figure 3 it was determined that there is a relationship between string length and period length.

	figure 1 dismissed the idea that the angle of release affects period length for multiple reasons. firstly, every error bar on the graph overlaps with one another. this shows that there is no significant difference between the data values collected. also the error bars are significantly larger than the error bars in figure 3. second, the line of best fit for figure 1 is almost horizontal with a shallow negative slope. this indicates that there is not a strong relationship between the two variables. finally the was 0.3108 indicating a weak relationship. all of these factors led us to the conclusion that the angle of release does not affect the period of a pendulum. 

	figure 2 dismissed the idea that mass affects period length for several reasons similar to the ones mentioned above. first every error bar on figure 2 overlaps one another indicating no significant difference between the data points. also like figure 1, the error bars in figure 2 are significantly larger than the error bars in figure 3. second, figure 2 like figure 1 has a shallow slope for its line of best fit. however, its slope is positive rather than negative. finally the value was 0.3903 indicating a weak relationship between the two variables. for these reasons we dismissed the idea that mass impacted period length.

	unlike figures 1 and 2, figure 3 indicates a relationship between the length of string and period length. by looking at the error bars it can be determined that there is some difference between the values of the data points. while some error bars overlap, they do not all overlap like the previous figures. the line of best fit generated for the graph has a steep positive slope indicating a strong relationship. this is further supported with the value of 0.9697. for these reasons it was determined that there was a relationship between the length of sting and period length.

	in lab 2 we explored the effects of error on data when comparing the time it takes for a pendulum to complete one period when angle of release, mass, and string length were held constant (see table 4). from figure 4 it was determined there was no significant difference in the data points collected because all of the error bars overlap which is an indicator that there is no significant difference. the uncertainty value that was calculated from excel was 0.099. this uncertainty was most likely due to random error being present in the lab. if the error was systematic most of the data points would be shifted in one direction. we know it was random error because the data points vary in multiple directions and magnitudes. in an attempt to reduce systematic error, all measurements for mass, angle of release, and length of string were done multiple times to ensure accuracy. all measuring tools were also calibrated multiple times. to reduce random error multiple trials were run to add a larger variety of data points. this in turn reduces random error.

	in lab 3 it was revealed that the theoretical equation for a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. however the equation for the graph in figure 5 is y is 0.3538 resulting in a line of best fit that follows a power function. when a value for length is plugged into the equation from figure 5 a slightly different answer is calculated than what would be calculated from plugging that value into the theoretical equation. this difference is due to random error. although the answers are different the values are close strengthening the idea that string length affects period length. both graphs also have a similar slope further supporting the idea that there is a relationship between the two variables. the slopes from figures 1 and 2 do not agree with the slope for the theoretical equation supporting the idea that there is no relationship between angle of release and period length or mass and period length. a few constraints limit the accuracy of these results. one constraint is that the pendulum was not always released in the same manner for every trial. this was due to random error because it is impossible to release the pendulum in exactly the same for as the previous manner. another constrain to this lab was using a protractor to measure angle of release. if the angle of release was set to a fixed value and did not have to be measured out every time then the data collected would have been more accurate. finally using a photogate for every lab would have led to more accurate results rather than using a stopwatch to measure time. therefor from the data collected and graphs generated the idea that there is a relationship between the length of string and the period of a pendulum is supported by labs 1,2, and 3.