discussion and conclusion: 



	the purpose of this experiment was to investigate which variables impact the period of a pendulum. the experiment was performed over a period of three weeks with mass, angle of release, and length of string being the three variables chosen to study. 

during week 1, three experiments were carried out, one for each variable being tested with the other two variables held constant. figures 1-3 demonstrate the results of each experiment. figure 1 indicates mass and the period of a pendulum are directly related. figure 2 depicts angle of release and the period of a pendulum to be inversely related. figure 3 suggests length of string and the period of a pendulum to be directly related. the goal of week 2 was to determine ranges of uncertainty in the measurements obtained during week 1 and to understand how to reduce experimental error. figures 1-3 portray the error bars for each experiment, accounting for uncertainty in the measurements. the uncertainty was calculated within excel. after analyzing the figures with the error bars, it can be determined that the length of the string affects the period of the pendulum. the mass and angle of release do not affect the period of the pendulum as demonstrated by the overlapping ranges of the error bars in figures 1 and 2. 

using the experimental design template for studying the impact of the length of string, the same experiment was carried out during week 3 to create a mathematical model for the period of a pendulum. however, a photogate was used to measure the time of the period instead of using a stopwatch. after setting a curve that best fits the data, figure 4 suggests a power model applies to the relationship of length of string versus period of a pendulum. the power model matches the theoretical model, which was presented in class to the students. analysis of the data measured in week 1 results in the conclusions that the mass and the length of string are directly related to the period of a pendulum in a linear model; whereas angle of release and the period of a pendulum are indirectly related, which can also be represented by a linear model. however, after measuring the uncertainties and re-analyzing the data from week 1, it is concluded that the angle of release and mass do not impact the period. therefore, the models for these two variables do not match the theoretical mathematical model. 

as in any given experiment, errors occurred. potential sources of systematic error include the balance, which was used to measure the mass of the weights that were added to the string and the protractor, which was used to measure the angle of release. if the balance and protractor are slightly inaccurate, then the time measured may not truly represent the accurate period for the mass or angle used. to reduce systematic errors, students should use the other balances or protractors when recording measurements. sources of random error consist of students incorrectly measuring the length of the string, reaction time while using the stopwatch, and students incorrectly reading the protractor when measuring the angle. these errors cause the data to be slightly skewed and inaccurate. in order to reduce random errors, students should run multiple trials. use of the photogate system reduced the random error while measuring the time for the period of the pendulum during the experiment in week 3.

although the experiments were successful and resulted in a model that matched the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum, further investigations would need to occur in order to make more general conclusions and to validate the results. the experiments were conducted using simple materials in a simple classroom environment. more precise balances, protractors, and timers would need to be used to collect more precise and accurate data. numerous trials would need to be conducted before drawing further conclusions in order to reduce random error.