discussion and conclusions:



in this lab, we investigated factors that affect the period of a pendulum for small swings. we specifically tested how the period was affected by mass of the object, angle of release, and length of string. in the first experiment, conducted on 8/29/18, we tested each of these variables and their effect on period using a stopwatch to measure the times. we discovered that mass does not affect period, as shown in figure 1, that angle of release only affects period at angles above 30 degrees, as discussed after figure 2, and that length of string and period have a direct relationship, as shown by figure 3. 

in the second experiment, conducted on 9/5/18, we discussed error and analyzed our graphs using error bars to determine the validity of our results. we found that our lab included random errors including angle of release not being exact (eyeballing measurements), delayed/premature timing(reaction times), and measurements not always being precise(rounding margin of error). these could be reduced by measuring precisely and conducting more trials. we also found systematic errors including non accurate calibration of scale when weighing pendulum and not including correct measurement of length of total pendulum(we measured just the string, but should have measured to the center of mass). these can be reduced by calibrating the scale before use and measuring the full length of the pendulum rather than just the string. 

we also analyzed standard deviations and error bars for our graphs in this experiment. we found that the mass of pendulum (figure 1) showed very small error, and therefore it is concludable that these variables have no relationship. the angle of release graph had a much larger margin of error (figure 2), making our data inconclusive. within 2 standard deviations, the curve may show either a direct relationship or no relationship. this is because we tested angles above 30 degrees, which can affect the period. finally, we looked at the graph of length vs. period (figure 3), which expressed a direct linear relationship. however, the error bars were wide enough that the exact relationship is indeterminable.

the relationship between length vs period was further tested during the third experiment, conducted on 9/12/18. we took more data points and used a photogate for more accuracy in our results. these results, as shown in figure 4, show a direct power relationship between length and period, rather than the linear relationship found earlier. the margin of error is small enough that this can be viably concluded.

the period equation is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ where t is period in seconds, l is length of string in meters or feet, and g is acceleration due to gravity i.e. 9.8 m/s^2 or 32 ft/s^2. our data found in experiment 3 fits closely with this model, but we were unable to come up with the full model due to random error and “π” is a constant that is unable to be determined through experimentation. this equation also does not include mass or angle of release, which also fits with our data as these have no effect on the period of a pendulum for a small swing. the first experiment was constrained in its results because we were not able to conduct enough trials at enough data points to make up for random error, making our data such as angle of release vs. period inconclusive. the third experiment was constrained in how it would be impossible to come up with the full mathematical model with the constant of pi.