discussion/ conclusion

from this experiment we found our hypothesis ‘the acceleration of a system changes when the applied force changes’ to be true. when the force increased so did the acceleration (table 1). we also predicted that while increasing the applied force will also increase the acceleration, which we found that to also be true by looking at our data. from this experiment i have learned that by having the same mass of an overall system but changing where it its placed on the system can change the acceleration and force. one way this experiment could be improved would be to further eliminate friction, although we calculated friction it still was not completely accurate, skewing some of our data. to further eliminate friction we could possible set up an ice track. by performing this experiment, i have learned the process of finding an acceleration of a system and prediction the hanging mass to get get a known acceleration. a systematic error that could be from this experiment is that the equipment we used could have been slightly off for every run. another systematic error is due to our group calculating equations in grams and not kilograms. in this experiment random error may be due to measuring exactly were the cart is placed on the air track and when released if the person who held on to the cart held on too long for some of the trials due to human error. a way we tried to control this was to have the same person release the cart for each trial. in figure 2 we see a linear correlation between acceleration and force (due to hanging mass) of the system. in this the error bars were very small and cannot be seen. this graph supports our hypothesis that the acceleration of a system changes when the applied force changes because as the acceleration increases so does the force of the hanging mass. this graph gave us a mathematical equation of $y=0.0053 x + 0.026$. we applied this equation to our theoretical model to predict the weight we needed to add to the hanging mass to get an acceleration of 0.50m/s^2. it is 16.26g our mathematical model did support our theoretical model and gave us the correct weight to add to the hanging mass to get a velocity of 0.50m/s^2. the data collected from another found similar findings to ours. although their data is slightly different due to the fact that they have a higher error than what we found. they had an error of 0.03m/s^2 while our group had an error of 0.01m/s^2. their findings also coincide with ours. their graph shows that as acceleration increases so does the force of the hanging mass, also supporting ours and their hypothesis. (zahneis, lipps, & ruffing, 2018)
