discussion and conclusions:

the research question being investigated throughout all three labs were “what impacts the period of pendulum for small swings?” the three variables that were being tested were angle of release, mass of weight, and length of pendulum. during the first part of this experiment, the data collected was for the angle of release (°) versus the period of pendulum (s). we used the data data collected to make experimental designs and make graphs and tables for each. during the first lab, we experimented the angle of release with the period of pendulum. the angle of release increased with each trial we performed. we performed a total of 4 trials. the independent variable was the angle of drop (°) , and the dependent variable was the period of pendulum (s). the controlled variables was the mass of the object, which was 50 grams, and the length of string, which was 107.5 centimeters. we chose these for our controlled variables because both stayed the same while performing the experiment. our experiment helped address our research question because our results showed that the independent variable (iv) does not affect the dependent variable (dv), but had a possibility to. this means that the inital angle does not affect the period of pendulum. we predicted the larger the angle, the longer the period. the graph for this experiment shown in figure 1, represented the iv, the angle of release was on the x-axis, and the dv, period of pendulum was on the y-axis. our best fit line represents the relationship of the values for each trial and show the equation of the straight line. this represents a linear indirect relationship. 

during the second part of the experiment, the 2nd lab, we used the data that was provided to us by the ta to perform the experiment because my lab partners and i did not have time to complete the whole experiment in the first lab. the data that was given that we used was the mass of the object (g) versus the period of pendulum (s). we then used that data given with our data collected to make experimental designs and make graphs and tables for each. the iv was the mass of the object (g), and the dv was the period of pendulum (s). the controlled variable was the length of the string, 107.5 cm. mass of the weight can help address the research question because it is a variable in the pendulum and has the possibility to affect the period of it. based on the graph that was made shown in figure 2, the mass does not indicate a relationship with the period of pendulum. our prediction was the heavier the mass of the object, the longer the pendulum. the graph shows that the mass of the object (iv), is related to the period of pendulum (dv) because the error bars do not overlap based on the equivalency criterion. the points on the graph show a relationship (length vs period) that differs by more than the equivalency criterion (+/- .01). the ones that have a relationship have overlapping of the error bars on the graph. we calculated a standard deviation of +/- 0.05. a small standard deviation compared to the mean tells us that the data provided does not differ from the mean largely and that it has less of a spread over the normal distribution curve of all of the data points. a large standard deviation (sd) curve indicates the opposite. the best fit line represents the the linear indirect relationship. 

during the third and last part of the experiment the data collected was for the length of the string(cm) versus the period of pendulum (s). the research question was to determine what impacts the period of pendulum. length of the pendulum can address this question because it is a variable in the pendulum, and also has the possibility to affect the period. the mass and angle were not included in this third part because there is no relationship between the mass of the pendulum and the angle of drop and the length of the period. the controlled variables were a weight of 50 g and the angle of drop was 15 degrees. we predicted that as the length increases, the period of pendulum also increases, and had a hypothesis that the length and the period of pendulum are related to one another. the data that was collected was not different than the data collected in the previous lab classes, as there was a positive relationship between the period and length of string. the graph that was constructed represented by figure 3 shows the length of the string (cm) as the independent variable, and the period of the pendulum (s) as the dependent variable. the controlled variables were the angle of release, which was 15 degrees, and the weight of 50 grams. based on the graph, as the independent variable increases, the dependent variables increase as well. the error bars that were put on the graph were too small to be seen because the photogate is 0.001 seconds. the best fit line showed a curve going up because of the positive relationship, direct relationship, between the two variables. 

for the third part of the experiment, the mathematical dependent variables do in fact form a linear correlation that follows the upward trend. this helps to solidify our determination that the length and the period are positively correlated. the actual formula for a pendulum at small angle is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. t is the length of the period in seconds, “l” is length of pendulum in meters and gravity is “g”. when we rearrange this equation that resembles  $t=\frac{2 \pi l^{0.5}}{\sqrt{g}}$.   which is 0.201 we determined ours to be 0.284. this number is fairly close in size. the exponent is equal to 0.5, and ours was 0.4342 which is also fairly close in size. therefore, we were able to come with a fairly similar mathematical model to that of the theoretical equation, with the limitations of human error and random error. 

	the systematic and human errors that were presented or could have been presented while performing this experiment was clicking on the stop watch (human), the release of the swing (human), an error with measurement/angle/length (systematic), the scale is not properly calibrated (systematic), and the error with the mass (systematic). the systematic errors could be fixed if our equipment was checked and calibrated accurately. errors could be reduced with multiple trials and with using a machine to perfect the angle of the string. a smaller standard deviation would indicate a smaller range of random error whereas a large sd will indicate a large number of random error possibilities. in case of systematic error, it is not affected by standard deviation. 

	some limitations or restraints of this experiment was the amount of time that was given to complete all three experiments for each lab period. the amount of time to complete the experiment is a restraint. another possible limitation for this experiment was not having a longer string and higher pendulum holder. the data could investigatewith longer pendulums if the string was longer. this would show the relationship between length of pendulum and period and could be more accurate. the results of this experiment claim that the period and length of pendulum have a positive correlation with a best fit line. through the results of the experiment we can also claim that angle of release and mass of weight do not a relationship with period of pendulum.