discussion and conclusion

in this experiment, we searched for what factors would impact the period of a pendulum for small swings. knowing that we were measuring the period of the pendulum, we determined that the dependent variable was time. time was measured using the stopwatch and recorded in seconds. the independent variables that were tested are the angle of release, mass of bob, and the length of string. the angle of release was measured in degrees, the mass of bob was measured in grams, and the length of string was measured in cm. the control variables were determined by which of the three independent variables were not tested in the certain experiment. for example, if mass of bob was tested, the control variables would be angle of release and length of string. each of the independent variables were tested with five trials. the uncertainty was determined by controlling each of the independent variables and ten trials were run. the times were put into excel and it was able to compute the standard deviation.

the first variable that was tested to see if there was an impact on the period was the angle of release. the angle of release is determined to be the point where the string lies “x” amount of degrees from the vertical 0o position. the degrees that were used are given in table 1.1. after five successful trials, a graph was created, and the error bars were placed in the graph. the error bars were based on the uncertainty (table 4). according to the graph and its error bars, there was no physical relationship between the angle of release because the graph increases then decrease slightly (figure 1). therefore, there is no impact of the angle of release on the period of the pendulum.

five trials were set to test the impact of the mass of bob on the period of a pendulum. the mass of the bob was at a starting mass of 50 g and increased by 25 g (table 2.1). the mass of the bob was measured using a balance scale. after the five trials were completed, a graph was created to show if there was a relationship between the mass of the bob and the period of a pendulum (figure 2). after the error bars were place, which were the same number as calculated in table 4, there was no clear, distinct relationship because the graph in figure 2 showed an increase in time, then a sharp decrease, and then and increase. also due to the error bars seem to overlap the equivalence criterion, which is +/- 2σ or two times standard deviation. this means that there is similarity between the number; however, due to the shape of the graph, we can say there is no impact on the mass of the bob on the period.

	the independent variable that was tested last was the length of the string. the length of the string was determined by the point of suspension, or pivot, to where the string attaches to the hook of bob. the length of the string was measured using a tape measured and recorded in centimeters. the five different string lengths are shown in table 3.1. in this experiment, the control variables were the angle of release (10o) and the mass of bob (50g). after each trial was performed the data was placed into a table and graph (figure 3). with the graph and the error bars placed, we saw a slight increase in the slope of the graph. there was no distinct increase and decrease in the slope like the other independent variables. according to the equivalence criterion, there is a overlap in the error bars showing that there may be a similarity between the data points. keeping in mind that there is a slight relationship, we tested this further with a new set of data points to see if there is a clearer relationship and what type of relationship it was between the length of the string and period.

	the second round of five trials were conducted and to achieve more accurate times for the period, a photogate was used. a photogate is a u-shape electronic device that records the time when it first reads the bob pass through to when it passes through the next time. five different length of string were used and are shown in table 3.2. with the angle of release and mass of bob remaining constant, the data was collected and graphed (figure 3.1). the error bars were placed on the graph and the distance between bars has improved from the first set of trials to the second. we were able to see a clearer relationship. because this is a simple harmonic motion, we have a semi-amplitude of the oscillation. this means that the angle between the pendulum and the vertical is at its maximum, which was at 100. therefore, we would use the christiaan huygens’ law for the period, (kamil et al., 2011). with the square root, we know that we have to have a power rule graph. a power rule line of best fit was placed on the graph of figure 3.1 and the equation was $y=0.11353252 x$. in this case, the experimental equation is $y=c1x^{c2}$, where x is length of string and y is period (time). the experimental equation was off from the due to the constants being different. the c1 constant should be around 2 and the c2 constant should be around .5 due to the square root.

	there are lots of errors that could have occurred in the lab that could have cause the mathematical model equation to be different from the theoretical equation. some of the random errors that could have occurred in the lab are reaction time, incorrectly measuring the mass, angle, or length, and bob not moving in a straight line. the reaction time of the person with the stopwatch could cause the time of the period to be shorter or longer depending on the situation. this can be prevented if the person with stopwatch were to count down instead of the person releasing the pendulum. the incorrect measurements of the mass, length, and angle can be prevented by having two different people measure it to make sure that it’s correct before moving on. if the bob does not move in a straight line it can cause the period to be longer so in order to prevent this make sure to drop the bob without causing a force to make it veer off. 

	some systematic errors that could have occurred in the experiment was the table was not leveled and fault in production of measuring tools. if the table was not leveled this would have cause an incorrect calibration of the balance scale causing the mass of the bob to different from its actual value. to prevent this, make sure the table is properly level using a leveler. if there was a fault in the production of the measuring tools and it caused the markings to be off from their actual place this would have caused the data to be skewed. to prevent this, compare the measuring tool with another one of its kind and make sure the markings line up and that they are the true markings.

	one of the major constraints that came about in the experiment was time. we were limited with the about of time we had to do the experiment, which was two hours per lab session. this meant that we had to reduce the number of trials for each experiment. by reducing the number of trials, this would have caused the generalization of relationship between a independent variable and the period of a pendulum to be broad because we are only basing it on the five trial we had time to do. another constraint that occurred in the lab was the limitation of how much string and weights we had and how far we were told to go with the angle of release. with these limitations and how far we were able to go with the independent variables cause the generalizability to be a weaker because we had such a small range of which we were able to test. 

	with the several errors that could have affected the experimental data and the constraints on the experiment, we were still able to see a relationship between one of the three independent variables. the length of string was the only independent variable that showed an impact on the period of the pendulum and this make sense because the theoretical equation that was 


