discussion: 

throughout weeks 1, 2, and 3 we investigated the effects of changing the length of string, angle of release, and mass of weight attached to a pendulum on the period of a swing. after testing the effect of changing the angle of release, we concluded that there is a correlation between changing the angle and the time it takes to complete one full pendulum swing. this conclusion can be drawn from the fact that a straight line cannot be drawn through the error bars on our data points in figure 1. after testing the effect of changing the length of the string of a pendulum, we concluded that there is a correlation between changing the length of the string and the time it takes to complete one full pendulum swing. this conclusion can be drawn because a straight line cannot be drawn through the error bars in our data points in figure 2. after testing the effect of mass of weights attached to the bottom of a pendulum, we concluded that there is not a correlation between the amount of weight a pendulum swings and the time it takes to complete an entire period. this conclusion was decided because a straight line could be drawn from the error bars in our data points in table 3. we continued to create a theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum by recreating our experiment for time vs. length using the photogate system. this highly detailed system had an uncertainty of 0.001 seconds. we found a power curve created a line of best fit for our graph, figure 4, with an r value of 0.9923. the equation of the slope was $y=2.1307 x^{0.4122}$. we related this back to the textbook model of a pendulum period of $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. we related our slope to the mathematical model because our y value represented time, and by rearranging the equation via algebra, we found a similar equation of $y=2.1307 \left(\frac{l}{g}\right)^{0.4122}$. although our equation does not exactly match the textbook model, we can see a similar layout including both gravity and the length of string as important pieces of the equation. since mass does not affect the period of the swing, it is not needed in this equation. however, change in angle is correlated to change in time and it is not directly included in the mathematical model. we believe this is because the angle can be broken up into its x and y components and incorporated into the g variable. the error bars utilized to come to these conclusions were found using the data in table 8, along with a microsoft excel equation. these error bars indicate the standard deviation from the data. we found a standard deviation of 0.05388. this small deviation indicates our data is close to the true value with little error. the errors we could have experienced in our experiments would be both random and systematic error. random errors could have been mismeasuring the independent variables and miscommunicating the time of pendulum release creating poor stopwatch reaction times. some systematic errors that could have affected our experiment would be errors in the accuracy of the measurement tools we used, including the protractor, stopwatch, and tape measure, and the measurement tools not being specific enough. we could reduce these errors in the future by taking more accurate measurements and utilizing more precise measurement systems, such as a stopwatch that counted more significant figures. this experiment does have some constraints that hinder our ability to draw general conclusions on our results, because there were both random and systematic errors that could have affected our results. future experiments hoping to answer a similar research question may utilize different instruments or set-ups that could change data and suggest a different trend.