discussion and conclusion 



	when investigating the research question, “what impact does mass of attachment, length of strong, and angle of release has on the period of a pendulum?”, it was proven through experiment that neither mass nor angle release affected the period of the pendulum. in figures 1 and 4, the graph shoes that there is no correlation between the independent variable and the dependent variable and in both graphs, the error bars overlap. since we see this overlapping of error bars, we can assume that angle releases and mass of attachment has no impact on the period of the pendulum. however, it was proven during this experiment that length of string impacts the period of the pendulum. in figure 2, we can see that there is some type of relationship between the independent variable and the dependent variable by the shape of the curve. also, in this graph, error bars do not overlap indicating that there is a correlation between the two variables. the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is $t=\frac{2}{g}$. when investigating which set of data fits the period of pendulum model, we found that only the one that impacted the period of the pendulum fit, which was the data where we invested the length of string on period length. in figure 3, a trendline was fit to the graph to indicate the relationship between period of pendulum and string length. a power trendline was used because it gave the closest value to 1 when looking at all the different types of trend lines. when fitting the line to this graph, the r^2 values is .99. when investing the factors that did not impact the period of the pendulum with the theoretical mathematical model of a pendulum, trendline that were fit to the graphs did not display a good relationship making the r^2 values not close to one at all.  in this experiment, it is possible that there were some random and systematic errors that could of affected the experiment in a negative way. a random error that occurred during this experiment was not rounding all times for the period of the pendulum to the same decimal place and then taking the average of these numbers. this could have caused our data to be a little inaccurate because not all measurements were recorded the same way. to reduce this error in the future, it is important that when taking measurements to round all numbers to the same decimal point so the data is consistent and fairly accurate. a systematic error that occurred during the experiment is not being able to stop the stopwatch exactly when the period of the pendulum was done. to reduce this error, using instruments to effectively record data or calibrating the stop watch before the experiment can ensure that the data will be better and more accurate. the only constraint that could have limited the generalization of the results were not performing numerous trials for when we invested mass of attachment and angle of release on period of the pendulum. more trials would have just made our data more clear that there is no correlation between the two variables.