discussion and conclusion: 

our experiments sought to investigate what factors affect the period of a pendulum, specifically the factors of length of the string, angle of the pendulum, and mass of bobber. we asked ourselves, what factors will affect the period of the pendulum, and what factors will not? to answer our research question, three separate experiments were conducted, with the period of the pendulum as the dependent variable for each experiment and our factors were used as the independent variables. after the three experiments were performed using stopwatches, we repeated the experiments for angle of swing and length of string using a photogate to provide more precise measurements of the periods and give us our uncertainty values. 



the experiments conducted using the photogate allowed us to evaluate where the error in our experiments might be coming from. there was a certain amount of random error to be accounted for from instrumental limitations, such as mechanical vibrations and the inconsistencies with the masses of bobbers from use over time. the scale itself, reading to a value of 0.1 g, gives us an uncertainty value of 0.05 g. the ruler used to measure our length gives us an uncertainty value of 0.5 cm, since our readings were in cm. the human error, classified under random error because it skews results on both sides, should be noted as small scale errors, such as mistakes using the measuring tapes, stopwatches and scales, or viewing the pendulum from slightly different angles. to reduce random error, we took times for five swings each trial instead of just one, and used the averages of the five times for our data. we also kept the person conducting the parts of the experiment with measurement constant, with the same person using the stopwatch, the same person taking measurements, and the same person setting the angle of the swing. our error bars were drawn to +2 sigma. our horizontal error bars are too small to be seen, while the vertical error bars for our third experiment are difficult to see due to the small error results. it should also be noted that we were operating under the constraint of periods of pendulums for small swings, or swings less than 30 degrees. our results do not apply generally do pendulums of all angles, string lengths, and bobber masses. 

our first experiment performed, using angle of swing as the independent variable, gave us results that at first appeared to support our hypothesis, but upon further analysis, were not conclusive. our first experiment using angle gave us a graph with large error bars, but data points that could possibly be linear, so the experiment was repeated using a photogate timer. the length of the period did increase slightly with each increase of the angle, but our error bars were still quite large and the mathematical relationship from our graph was non-linear, with a curve of     $y=r^{2}$        being drawn through the data. 
the second experiment performed, using mass of bobber as the independent variable, immediately led us to reject our hypothesis because there didn’t appear to be any correlation or even significant differences in the times of the periods, no matter what mass was used. graphing the data led us to conclude that there was no correlation, and given that there is no mathematical relationship, the mass of bobber does not affect the period of the pendulum. 
the third experiment performed, using the length of string as the independent variable, was our only experiment to provide results that allowed us to accept our hypothesis. graphing our data led us to immediately see what appeared to be a linear mathematical relationship, with the period of pendulum increasing with each consecutive increase in the length of the string used. the experiment was repeated using a photogate timer, and this gave us data that when graphed, demonstrated a clear linear relationship. a “power” line was drawn through the data, giving us an r^2 value of .99999, which validates our data, along with the x value on our line being at 0.5018, with 0.1 and 0.5 being the desired values respectively. to further analyze these results, we used the theoretical model to assess some of our data points.  
our data for length of string vs. period of pendulum is in almost exact agreement with the theoretical model for this relationship. we took three of the length measurements used in our data and compared our results to the theoretical model calculations, shown below and solving for t, time of period.
as shown, there was less than a .09 s difference for every data point used. the agreement of our data with this theoretical model validated our results, and allow us to more definitively accept our hypothesis and prediction as correct.