conclusion/discussion:

	during this lab, we tested what factors affected the period of a pendulum. the independent variables of this experiment are the length of the string, angle of release, and weight of the pendulum. random error was present in our initial experiments due to using to large of an angle as a constant and using a stopwatch for measurement. based on our initial data, we concluded that the length of the string and angle of release affected the period of the pendulum. we decided upon this because they both had a linear relationship and small error bars. we disregarded the mass of the pendulum as having an effect on the period because the graph was inconsistent, and it had large error bars. we tested this new hypothesis by redoing the experiments for the length of the string and period of the pendulum and minimizing the amount of errors. we minimized error by using a control angle of 20 degrees and using a photogate to measure the period rather than the stop watch. we repeated the experiments of the effects of the length of the string and angle of release. we kept the angle of release consistent at 20 degrees and the weight of the pendulum consistent at 50 grams for the experiment to assess the effects of the length of the string. during the experiment examining the angle of release we kept the weight consistent at 50 grams and the length of the string consistent at 15 inches. the time for both of these experiments was measured via a photogate and the datastudio software. the length of the string had a linear relationship with the period of the pendulum and the angle of release had a nonlinear relationship with the period of the pendulum. the length of the string had consistent data from out first lab, but the angle of release had opposing data. in the first experiment, the angle of the string experiment had linear data, but after redoing the experiment with the photogate, the data is nonlinear. this further proves the effect that the random error of using a stopwatch had on the experiment. the graph that best fit the length of the string data was the power graph. the equation is $y=0.3681 x^{0.471}$. after conducting the experiment, we have determined that there is no dependence on angle. the mathematical model for the period of the pendulum further proves that the period is not affected by angle or mass; however, it is affected by the length of the string.  out of the three independent variables tested, the mathematical model only lists the length, further proving the data we got from the lab.