discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of this lab was to determine the relationship between the force applied and the acceleration of a system. our equation for our system was $0.2194 x+ 0.001=y$ which differed slightly from the $f=m a$ model (figure 1). our r2 value was .9943 showing that we had a very linear trend with our data. errors were determined using the error of the scale and sensor which were respectively .00005 and .001. mass is found in the x value while the acceleration is the y value. group 2 in section 017 (figure 2) found an equation of $y=0.501 x-0.029$ with an r2 value of .9998 which shows another linear trend in favor of the hypothesis. group 2 in section 19 found another linear trend (figure 3) with an equation of $y=4.831 x- 0.0216$ with an r2 value of .9905, less than both groups and with a higher value before the x/m value. the r2 value is lower than our group and the other group 2’s data which could be due to an error in calibration for the sensor and incorrect acceleration values. for example, the first mass is 4.7 grams with an acceleration of .154 m/s2 (table 3) while the other group 2’s value was 4.75 with an acceleration of .211 m/s2 (figure 2). there is a significant difference in these values (.057 m/s2) while the difference between group 2 section 017 data and our data is .005 m/s2. while both groups’ data supports our data and hypothesis, group 2 section 19’s data varied. when looking at the hanging weight, it experiences both tension and gravity in the system where the tension acts as force applied. the string in which the tension is enacted is massless in this experiment but if it had a mass it would contribute to the mass of the system as well as the force applied thereby affecting the acceleration of the cart. while not an error, this experiment had possible systematic errors. the air track’s connection could have been faulty, detected due to an abnormal noise when the pump was turned on so the full velocity could not be measured properly. there could also be error with the calibration of the scale as well as the calibration of the sensor due to repeated impacts. for errors with the scale, we weighed the mass of the bobs each time in order to assure that the data would be reflective of what we measured. to reduce the error with the connection, an air track with a proper connection should be used with a sensor that has had no impacts. this experiment was done on a small scale on a track with negligible friction so the applicability of the data is highly questionable outside of these constraints but could be tested further in a more practical scale such as with cars where friction is a factor. however, to support our hypothesis that mass increasing would increase the acceleration, it would be enough for this scale. 
