discussion

	the experiments outlined in this report were performed after asking the research question of the study is  how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes? it was hypothesized that the applied force on a system does affect its acceleration and predicted that there was a direct relationship between applied force and acceleration.

	figure 2 demonstrates the results of varying the applied force of a system on the system’s acceleration. the force that causes motion in the system of the balls and cart is that of gravity acting on the hanging weight; therefore, the independent variable was the applied force that changed as the hanging mass was changed. as the hanging weight (applied force) was increased, there were significant differences in acceleration. the range of uncertainty associated with the equivalency criterion described for the experiment shown in figure 2 does not overlap between each of the data points. this suggests that there is an effect on acceleration when the applied force is changed. the experimental model was $a_{sys}=5.2508 f_a + 0.0577$ and this model fit the data with a correlation of coefficient r² is 0.988.

	group 2 (section 006, personal communication, october 2018) was able to recapitulate our model. they too determined that when the mass of a system is kept constant and an applied force is varied, the system’s acceleration is directly related to the applied force and its changes. discrepancies between group 2’s findings and our own included the idea that some type of external force other than that of gravity acting on the hanging mass was affecting the system’s acceleration.

	group 5 (section 006, personal communication, october 2018) corroborated our defined variability-causing factors; friction was likely present between the cart and the track (since it is really difficult to make a frictionless track) and it is possible that the track was slightly tilted; this would result in gravity acting on the cart perhaps playing a role in acceleration as well. group 2’s experimental model deviated from our own as they factored in the external force and did not simply use the automatically-generated mathematical model from the curve-fitting of the data. 

	as discussed in the rationale for this study’s hypothesis, newton’s second law provides the theoretical equation is  $a_{sys} =\frac{f_a}{m_{sys}}$. because msys is a constant throughout the experiment, there should be a direct relationship between asys and favg; this is observed in both figure 2 and the mathematical (experimental) model from performing a linear curve-fitting analysis for the data. the experimental model is $a=5.2508 F_A + 0.0577$. the constant is likely indicative that there is some other force influencing the system that just that of gravity acting on the hanging system mass. the system mass itself is also accounted for in the coefficient of the experimental model equation.

	thus, the theoretical mathematical equation can be modified and enhanced to account not just for the applied force (hanging weight) but also for any other external forces that act on the system is  $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$. this modified equation is more applicable to newton’s second law, which states that the acceleration of an object (or system) is related to the net force that acts on it. the original theoretical model and experimental model both make the assumption that the net force acting on the system of the balls and the cart is the force of gravity acting on the hanging weight. this is, again, likely incorrect since it is very difficult to rid the experimental system of any other external factors (namely friction between the cart and the track).

	if a non-massless string was used to connect the hanging weight and the cart, there would be a gravitational force acting on that string. this would increase the total applied force acting on the system since, as the string does not make contact with the table, there is no normal force to counter the downward gravitational force acting on the string. the total system’s mass would also increase, though, so the coefficient in the experimental model would be modified to account for the mass of the string that adds to the system. using a pulley with mass would also affect the tension in the string since there would be some rotational inertia associated with the pulley. 

	random errors in the experiment would include things like inconsistency in massing various objects in the system as well. using a digital balance could help reduce randomness associated with the manual sliding balances. random error could also be associated in releasing the cart and allowing it to move on the track. if there was some push force given by the person releasing the cart, that would add to the net applied force acting on the system and increase measured acceleration. systematic errors would involve the balance itself being improperly calibrated, or the motion sensing system incorrectly measuring acceleration. this could be accounted for by determining the difference between the systematically incorrect measurements and making the corrections to all the data points. additionally, because the motion sensing system uses a secondary method of measuring acceleration (taken as the slope of the velocity vs. time graph and not measured directly), there is inherent error associated with the measured acceleration that could not be accounted for unless the method of measurement was changed.

	constraints in the experiment included a limitation to the mass range we were able to test. if we could vary the mass between the cart and the hanging balls even more, we would be able to suggest that our experimental model holds true over an even larger range than we suggest it should here. additionally, time is a constraint in that there was little time to come up with a modified experimental equation that accounted for external factors like friction. the effect of external forces like friction on the system could be determined if more time was given to perform the experiment. performing more trials would also result in more confident conclusions being made.
