discussion and conclusion:

our research question is: how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes? our hypothesis is the acceleration of a system is affected by the change of applied force. in figure 1 the mathematical model graph shows that as force increases the time to accelerate also increases. in figures 2 and 3 these are data from two different groups. figures 2 and 3 show support to our own group’s claim that as force increase the acceleration also increases. this can be seen in figure 2 the graph they have drawn matches our mathematical model. the theoretical and experimental values for acceleration were compared. the theoretical experiment model is -. the experimental model obtained from our chart is $y=4.4864 x + 0.0234$. the value of y is equal to our acceleration and x is equal to the force. the slope of the experimental model is similar to the theoretical slope which is 1/.186kg which is 5.38 for the theoretical slope. additionally, we are able to use the y-intercept to find the force of friction. the results show that the theoretical acceleration increased more quickly than the experimental acceleration, demonstrating that when the weight was added to the cart the cart’s acceleration decreased, but when the weight was added to the hanging string the cart’s acceleration increased. if the hanging string contain no mass the acceleration of the cart would be slower than if the hanging string did contain mass. some systematic errors include inaccuracy of the triple beam balance, and an error of the precision air track. some random errors would be weighing the bobs wrong or setting up the experiment wrong. steps to reduce errors would be weighing all the bobs twice and doing the experiment at two different work stations to make sure that there is nothing wrong with the precision of the air track. some constraints in this experiment that may limit the generalizability of the results would be if the string had an appreciable mass, the cart would not have a uniform acceleration because as the increase of the weighted hanging mass continues to propel downwards, there would be an increase gravitational pull affecting the acceleration of the cart. the friction of the air track will take in account for the results.
