discussion and conclusion: 

our hypothesizes of whether changing certain factors influence the period of a pendulum and these factors were; 1 mass of the weight, 2 angle of the release, 3 and length of the string. theoretically we believed that all 3 of these factors could have a direct or indirect correlation to the period of pendulum. through changing only one factor at a time we found out that only the length of the string changed the period for small swings. this conclusion was observed when looking at our graphs. length of string (only) vs. period of pendulum graph shows a direct correlation (linear for the most part) and with only having small error bars due to the accuracy of our laser system start and stop counter. the release angle vs. period of pendulum and mass of the weight vs. period of pendulum both display no correlation either way (direct or indirect) and have the same error bar length of .03 second which show that both independent variables had no correlation. the factor of uncertainty of the length of the string vs. period of pendulum was +- .001 and this was indicated to us by our lab instructor. the mass of weight vs. period of pendulum uncertainty was found to be 1.434 ± 0.02884. the angle of release vs. period of pendulum uncertainty was found to be 1.12 ± .053853. each of these factors were found by taking the average of the results and subtracting or adding the deviation. the deviation can be calculated taking the square root of the variance of the data or using excel (we used excel).



none of our graphs matched the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum and the equation for that is $t=\frac{2 pisqrtl}{g}$. the data for the length of string vs. period of pendulum shows we had almost 0 error, at least as close as we could realistically get to zero error. when we use the theoretical model period of the pendulum we find that when the length of the string is 50 cm the expected period of pendulum would be 1.4184 seconds, but that’s not what we got. when we input 50 cm using the equation that we obtained from graphing our data on excel, the period of pendulum is estimated to be 1.5768 seconds. this could have come from numerous systematic errors. for example, we had no equipment to test the actual value of gravity.  another systematic error was human inaccuracy of releasing the pendulum and starting and stopping the stopwatches. we tried to eliminate the systematic error starting and stopping the stopwatches by instead using a laser system (this was only used for the length vs period of pendulum data). another source of systematic error could have resulted from using a weight that was not actually the theoretical amount and could of easily been avoided by measuring the mass of the weights. an unsteady stand could have also resulted in systematic error. this error could have easily been avoided by securing the stand tightly with another brace added on to it. other errors we could not have avoided were random errors, such as some ground shaking force that interfered with the data. although we couldn’t have avoided them, continual testing would eliminated, or at least minimized, these errors.  one constraint of our experiment could have come from our limited amount of time to run trials of the experiment, if we had conducted more trials our data would have been more accurate.