conclusion:

	the purpose of this experiment was to investigate the relationship between the acceleration of a system and the applied force of gravity of the hanging mass. this was accomplished by using a frictionless sliding track and a sliding block with a massless string attached to bobbers (see figure 6). the mass of the system was first calculated. the air pump on the frictionless sliding track was turned up all the way before measuring the acceleration of the sliding block. the data was graphed and the equations in figure 5 were configured using this graphed data. the data and equations in figure 5 give us the answer to the research question of how the acceleration of a system changes when the applied force changes.

	in figure 5, it is clear that the independent variable is directly proportionate to the dependent variable. in other words, as the hanging weight increases, the acceleration of the system also increases. similarly, if the hanging weight were to decrease, the acceleration of the system would decrease. although the error bars are too small to be seen, the diagonal line generally passes through every point or comes very close to each of them. given that the diagonal line crosses through the points and error bars proves that they are directly proportionate to each other. if a horizontal line can be drawn and it goes through multiple points or error bars, the variables are indirectly proportionate to each other. this would mean that the independent variable has no effect on the dependent variable.

	the theoretical equation, , and the enhanced theoretical equation, , are given for this experiment. the experimental mathematical model, , where  , , and , supports the these equations because if the values for  , x, and  are substituted, the equation can be simplified. by substituting these values, the equation becomes  . this can be further simplified to . since the sliding track was frictionless and all extra forces (gravity of both masses), , (because the sum of the extra forces is equal to zero in these situations), therefore the equation becomes , the theoretical equation. the linear equation given by the experimental data graph (figure 4) is in slope formula or . by comparing this equation and the experimental mathematical model, it is clear they are in the same format. this means that , , and . therefore, the linear formula given by figure 4 can also be stated as . the values 4.9007 and 0.0093 are constants, since the mass of the system, , is a constant. the value 0.0093 is very close to zero, which is a good thing since friction should be equal to zero. since it’s slightly higher than zero, this could be due to a systematic errors which will be discussed in more depth further in this report. overall, the value of 0.0093 can be explained because it is near impossible to be complete frictionless unless something like dry ice is used as the sliding mass.

	the findings from group 3 and 4, in figures 7 and 8, support the findings in our group’s experiment. in their data tables, the acceleration increases as the hanging mass increases. the force also increases as the hanging mass increases. the c_1 values were both around 5.000 and the c_2 values were very close to zero. both of their graphs were linear meaning this supports our findings that the independent variable (the hanging weight) and the dependent variable (acceleration of the system) are directly proportional. the only discrepancy seen in the other groups’ data is that the entire table including uncertainty are not included in group 4’s data, therefore we cannot compare uncertainty values. however, in group 3’s data, the uncertainties are very similar to the uncertainties calculated by our group. lastly, neither group had listed the prediction into words but they did provide a graph of their prediction which matched ours (figure 4). overall, the data sets are very similar to ours and it seems like all errors and uncertainties were alike.

	if a heavy string was used instead of the lightweight string, the acceleration would be the same or similar. since the mass of the rope would increase, the force of the system or tension and the mass of the system would increase. given the equation , where , if tension increases and system mass also increases, acceleration would be the same or similar. 

	systematic errors within this experiment can be due to neglecting other forces outside of the system. although there were not any big gusts of wind in the lab room, there may have been some air resistance or change in air resistance. for example, if the air conditioning was not on during the first part of the lab, but was turned on during the last few trials, this could create inaccurate data. the values could be more accurate if there was absolutely no air resistance and the air was not on at all. another systematic error is that the track may not have been completely level, or possibly there were nicks in the metal of the sliding mass and/or the sliding track which caught during the experiment, creating a small amount of friction. the values could be more accurate if the sliding track was made completely level and there were no nicks in the system at all. with every uncertainty there is a systematic error. for example, there are uncertainties calculated for acceleration, force, and balance. the systematic error of acceleration is about as close as can be with the computer software photogate used, but in order to create even more accurate results, the average of multiple trials with the same hanging mass could be used. with the calculated uncertainty for force, there is uncertainty due to exterior forces not calculated, again such as air resistance previously talked about. the uncertainty with the balance also presents a systematic error. the balance may not be accurate, in which case, a difference, more accurate balance should be used to weigh the mass of the system and the mass of the bobbers. 

	the constraints in this experiment are as follows is  the weight of the system, the weight of the string, the frictionless sliding track, and the air pump being at maximum rpms. if the weight of the system were to change, the acceleration of the system could not be accurately measured. if the weight of the system became lighter, the experiment would be something like investigating the relationship between the mass of the system and the acceleration of the system, instead of the change in weight of the hanging mass. the experiment set up would be slightly different too. the bobbers would most likely start off of the system, and one at a time, they would be added to the hanging mass. however, it could also be set up by adding one bobber to the hanging mass and one to the sliding mass. the weight of the string had to be massless for this experiment. if it was not massless, there could be created friction involved. the sliding track had to be frictionless and level. if it was not, there would be other forces involved in calculating the acceleration of the system. the acceleration would ultimately be lower if there was friction involved. lastly, the air pump has to be at maximum rpms. if it was not, the rpms would differ with each trial and the track would consequently have friction. if the air pump was not at maximum rpms, the acceleration be lower.

	in conclusion, the acceleration increases as the weight of the hanging mass increases. the force will also increase as the weight of the hanging mass increases. the experimental mathematical model is given by the experimental graph (figure 5), . since this equation is a linear equation, the acceleration of the system is directly proportional to the force of gravity on the hanging mass. this equation represents the acceleration of the system. the value 4.9007 is equal to . the value x represents the force to gravity on the hanging mass. the friction value, 0.0093, is close enough to zero to blame anything above zero on uncertainty and systematic errors.

