
	discussion and conclusion

in this experiment, mass, length of string, and angle of release was investigated to determine if any of these three factors impacted the period of a pendulum for small swings. in the three experiments, each of the three factors was changed, individually, and graphs of the data measured were created. using the photogate system on a computer, we were able to accurately measure the period of a pendulum swing.

according to the data presented, we can conclude that the mass of the weight attached to the pendulum does not impact the period of a pendulum. this is because gravity is the only force acting upon the pendulum, which always stays at a constant 9.8m/s^2. the reason that all the points on the graph in figure 1 are not all the same could be due to random errors. if more trials were conducted, a more accurate number for how long the period of a pendulum is (with changing mass) could be obtained.

the same is true for the angle of release of a pendulum when the angle is under 15 degrees. looking back at figure 3, one can conclude that there was no relationship between angle release and period of a pendulum because the data points were scattered in a random order. therefore, no best fit line worked for figure 3. however, above 15 degrees, the angle does affect the period of a pendulum. in the future, trials could be conducted using increments of 10 degrees at 15 degrees or above to determine the relationship between period of a pendulum and angle of release above 15 degrees.

	while angle of release and mass both were determined to have no affect on the period of a pendulum, the same is not true for the length of the string used in the pendulum trials. after analyzing the data for this factor and plotting the points on a graph, it was determined that the power line was the best choice for a best fit line because almost all the points passed through this line. thus, looking at figure 2, there was a nonlinear relationship between the length of string and period of a pendulum.

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2 \pi l^{0.5}}{\sqrt{g}}$. this full model was not exactly recreated in the experiments, however the model i obtained in the experiments was very close to this model. the equation i obtained was c1*l^c2. referring to figure 2, the equation $y=0.3025 x^{0.418}$ was obtained using the best fit line. the variable c1 has a value of 0.3025, which is similar to the value when calculating 2pi/sqrt(g), which is 0.2007. the variable c2 has a value of 0.4186, which is similar to 0.5 in the exponent of l of the theoretical mathematical model. mass is not a variable used in the theoretical model because mass did not affect the force of the pendulum swings. the only force affecting pendulum swings is gravity, which is the variable g in the theoretical model. since angle was determined to have no affect on the pendulum swings according to figure 3, that variable was also not included in the theoretical model. the variable x in the theoretical model stands for the length of the string because we determined that length does impact the period of a pendulum.

	the systematic error that could be present in this experiment was in the timing between the person who let go of the pendulum and the person who clicks the start of a period in the photogate application. this systematic error may be reduced with more advanced technology, however for the technology used in this experiment, the systematic error cannot be reduced. random errors also must be factored in during this experiment. there could be random errors in measuring the length of the string and the angle of release since the length had to be measured to the nearest millimeter and the angle had to be measured to the nearest degree. increasing the number of trials would produce a more precise average.

	constraints in this experiment include changing the angle of release when the angle is greater than 15 degrees. when the angle is greater than 15 degrees, this does impact the period of a pendulum. further investigation into this concept would be useful in determining what kind of relationship angle of release above 15 degrees has with the period of a pendulum. any angle above 90 degrees would not be ideal in an experiment because then the pendulum weight is in freefall until it pulls on the end of the pendulum string. air resistance might also affect the period of a pendulum when experimenting with mass of an object or different sized objects with the same mass. when experimenting with mass and period of a pendulum, the increments of mass should not be too large, or else air resistance could come into play.