discussion and conclusion

during the course of two weeks, our group tested how an applied force can directly affect the acceleration of a system. specifically, we were testing the applied force on a system by gradually changing the hanging mass on the pulley system which allowed us to make a claim that acceleration was directly affected by the amount of force applied/increase in hanging mass. in table 1.2 and graph 1.1, one can conclude that as the amount of mass applied increased on a system so did the applied force which increased the acceleration of the system in a linear fashion. we are able to make this claim because the r2 value of our system is very close to one indicating that there is a strong correlation between the independent and dependent variables. this claim can also be solidified by the error bars associated with our graphs, if one looks at the error bars or levels of uncertainty in graph 1.1 or table 1.3, one can see that there is not much variation or spread in the data set showing that a valid conclusion can be drawn.  

as with any experiment or lab, it is imperative that one seeks reference or collaboration with partners to ensure findings are not random and that they are in fact true in nature. in our 105115 lab each group did the same experiment allowing for us to come together and either refute or accept the claim that acceleration is affected by the force applied to a system. in group one of lab 105115, they stated that there was a relationship between the hanging mass and the acceleration of a system. as they changed the hanging mass they noticed that the acceleration gradually increased in a linear fashion as well yielding a r2 value of 0.9374. this is exactly what our findings also tell us, which is that keeping the mass of the total system the same and just changing the hanging mass, you can see that the acceleration of the system will be directly affected. another group in physics lab 105115 that was testing the effects of the applied force on acceleration and found similar results as our group is group five. over the course of eight trials group 5 also noticed that with each increasing increment to the applied force on a system there was a gradual increase in the acceleration of the system. group five also concluded the relationship between force and acceleration was a linear relationship. all though they did not include their r2 value, you can still see that their data is dependable based on their small uncertainty values, showing there is not much spread or variation in the data set. 

after conducting the experiment, we were able to see the relationship between acceleration through various mathematical models and equations. one mathematical model that was represented in this lab was $f=m a$ which rearranged for acceleration is actually $a =\frac{f}{m}$ . this equation compensates for one force on an object or system and sees how that one force and the object’s mass affects the acceleration of the system. another mathematical model that was represented in the lab followed the structure of $y = m x + b$. where y is acceleration, x is force, m is 1/mass and b is friction or another underlying force that needs to be compensated for. our experiment does support the enhanced mathematical model because of the strong correlation and relationship found between our independent and dependent variables. 

if the scenario had come up and the mass of the string was no longer negligible like tested throughout this experiment, then the acceleration would have been affected. by increasing the mass of the string, you are introducing more hanging mass to the system which would in return increase the acceleration of the system.

as with any research conducted, there are certain constraints and errors that should be identified and discussed to ensure that with current testing and even future testing, these errors are able to be minimized. one error that affected our group directly is that our cart was unable to travel on the track. whether the vacuum to the track was too weak to pull the cart or something on the track was preventing the car from accelerating forward we were forced to scrap our initial runs and use another track which gave us much more reliable data to analyze. a systematic error that could have played a prominent role in data collection and analyzation is that if the triple beam balance was off balance slightly yielding inaccurate masses for the fishing bobs that were attached to the pulley system. these slightly inaccurate masses would give different calculations when analyzing the data. the major constraints associated with the lab is the size of the equipment and the time able to do the lab. by size of equipment, data was only able to be collected in small scale. only a small amount of mass could have been placed on the system with the small string and small cart restraining widespread data collection. time, is also a constraint that is commonly found in all experiments because if more time was allotted for data collection then more accurate conclusions and claims would be able to be drawn from them.