discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of this experiment was to test whether an applied force would change the acceleration of the system. this was tested by setting up a system with a cart that had a hanging mass from it. the mass was then put on a frictionless air track and the acceleration was then collected using datastudio. the hanging mass was increased by one bobber for each trial to see if increasing the applied force would increase the acceleration

the resulting mathematical model that was found from this experiment and is shown in figure 1 was $y=4.9681 x + 0.007$ with an r^2 value of 0.997. the theoretical mathematical model for this experiment is $a=f c1+c2$. the mathematical model was a linear relationship which means as one value increases the other value increases as well. this model showed that there is a positive direct relationship between the force applied and the acceleration of the system. the experiment helped to answer the research question by setting up a scenario that allowed the force applied to be changed and to see how acceleration reacted to it. when the force applied increased, the acceleration increased in a positive direct relationship shown in the graph.

above are two images of the data collected by two other groups. group 1 on the left had very similar data and information to what was collected in this experiment. their mathematical model was $a= 4.224 f + 0.0358$ which is like the mathematical model found using the data above which is $a= 4.9681 f +0.0076$. this value is also like group 2 on the right whose equation was $a=4.8214 f + 0.002$. all three of these equations are similar with the first value being between 4 and 5. the second value in the equation is also a small number with group 1 being the largest and group 3 being the smallest. the second value is referring to the friction in this experiment which is such a small number it is almost negligible, but it does cause a slight change in the experimental data. both groups support the claim that was made that as applied force increases so does the acceleration of the system. they also both agreed that the mathematical model was a linear relationship.

the experimental model in this experiment was $a=4.9681 f + 0.0076$. the theoretical model is $a=c1 f + c2$. the value a was found by taking the mass of the hanging weight dividing by the mass of the system and then adding c2 which in this case is friction. the value is so small for friction because the experiment was done on a frictionless track, so the value should not be large 

the forces that might be present in this experiment would be tension of the string on the cart and the hanging mass, the friction of the air track, the friction exerted by the pulley with the sensor, and the small amount of air resistance. additionally, gravity holding down the cart would be another force that might be present in this experiment.

the mass shows up in the experimental model when trying to find the acceleration. the mass of the system turned out to be 186.3 g which is kept constant even when the hanging mass is changed because the same number of bobbers are being used, but in a different location in the system. the increasing mass of the hanging weight continued to increase the acceleration of the system. the mass of the bobber was multiplied by 9.8 m/s^2 and then divided by 1000 to get the value in the unit of n which is kg*m/s^2. this value could then be used to find the acceleration without the use of the sensor and datastudio. that value could be placed in the theoretical equation and be used to find the acceleration. the mass of the hanging weight would be divided by the mass of the system (186.3g) and then 0.0076 would be added to account for friction.

a non-massless string connecting the hanging mass to the cart would affect the acceleration because acceleration would increase due to the non-massless string therefore not keeping the acceleration constant.

there were a couple different errors that were present in this experiment. most errors in this experiment were systematic. one of these errors is the scale not properly being calibrated. another would be multiple knots in the string. lastly, the sensor on the air track could have been incorrectly calibrated resulting in incorrect measurements. some random errors would be not starting the datastudio at the right time or not correctly reading the mass from the scale. the first error of the scale not being properly calibrated can be avoided by making sure the scale says 0 when nothing is on it. the second error of knots in the string could be avoided by not wrapping the string around the bobbers when weighing it. the third systematic error of the sensor could be avoided by doing a test run where the value should be 0 and making sure it is at exactly zero. random errors could be avoided by starting the datastudio at the correct time each trial and making sure the scale is directly in the middle when weighing something.

some constraints in this experiment would be that the string was less than a meter and no longer which did not allow the data to be collected for a longer period. also, a constraint was the amount of knots that was in the string originally which caused the string to be cut and shorten to what it was previously. the last constraint would be only having 8 bobbers. this preventing from adding multiple more bobbers and increasing the hanging mass by a larger value. 

based on the data that was collected during this experiment to test whether an applied force causes a change in acceleration, it can be said that there is a positive linear relationship between the two variables. as the applied force increased, so did the acceleration of the system.
