discussion and conclusion

	the experiments objectives were to determine if the acceleration of a system changed when the applied force changes. our hypothesis was the acceleration is related to the amount of applied force. to test this, we performed an experiment with a cart, air track and different hanging masses. before preforming the experiment, our group concluded that the greater the hanging mass off of the air track the faster the cart will accelerate. after compiling the data there is a positive linear relationship between force of hanging mass and the speed of acceleration (figure 1 & table 2).  the error bars we calculated by using the uncertainty of force, so as the force increases each error bar is getting larger by .0025kg due to the addition of a bobber for each trial (figure 1). the mathematical model that we obtained from our data is $y=3.817 f + 0.069$ the +0.069 comes from friction of the air track/pully and also air resistance. the controlled variables that we listed were air track, cart (0.145 kg), string length (115.5 cm), and 8 bobbers (0.0055 kg) each. we obtained an r2 value of 0.9735 which is very close to 1 which proves that our data does in fact correlate.

 looking at another group’s hypothesis, mathematical mode, and variables i can conclude that they agree with ours. a group got a mathematical model of $y=4.86 f + 0.01$ which is not far off of our calculated mathematical model of $y=3.817 f + 0.069$. the controlled variables they had surface track, mass of system, mass of bobber, string, and pulley. they had some controlled variables that we did not think of that do work so they have more in-depth variables, and their hypothesis was that “if the force applied to a system is changed, the acceleration will be impacted”. another group that supports our mathematical model, had a model of $y=5.25 f + 0.06$. this is also very close to ours and they have the +0.06 from friction and air resistance which we also had on our experiment. their hypothesis was “the acceleration of the system is affected by the applied force”, which would be interchangeable with ours in either situation. the controls that they listed are mass of system, photogate, and distance of cart on track. these are valid controls for this experiment. 

the theoretical model for the acceleration of a system by a single force is $f=m a$, our model and the other groups that support our model all have a positive linear relationship which supports the theoretical model as well.  our data had the r2 value of 0.9735 and a value of 1 would be the theoretically perfect fit, so this is very accurate data and proves the support of the theoretical model. the enhanced theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by more than one force is $a=m x$



+b this was found in excel after graphing the data set. b is the error in the experiment that gives the correct acceleration with factors such as friction and air resistance being accounted for. the other groups and our experimental models support this model because all groups had equations that factored in the air resistance and friction. if a heavy string were to be attached to the connecting the hanging weight the acceleration would increase due to increase in applied force, which would result in the increase of acceleration when the non-massless string does to the other side of the pulley.

random errors involved with this experiment include any human error in measuring of the weight of the hanging mass, having multiple people taking measurements instead of one person causing different uncertainties, not using significant figures, taking multiple measurements and averaging them. errors can be reduced by carefully taking measurements, planning the execution of the lab before starting, knowing the possible errors and how to avoid them, practicing your technique and measuring. constraints on the experiment were mass of the hanging weight that we could add, we only had 8 bobbers and that could not be changed. thus, having an effect on the results because limitations in the preset hanging were place because we could not find more data points or intervals in-between certain weights. masses in between the mass of the hanging weight would have to be calculated through the use of our positive linear model of a line graph. the friction coefficient changes depending on what surface it is, so the acceleration is not going to be exactly perfect because this was not performed in a vacuum.