discussion and conclusion

	the research question of “how does the applied force impact the acceleration of the system?” was investigated in this lab. this experiment was done in two labs, the first lab investigated how the hanging force impacted the acceleration of the system by moving bobbers around on the system (a cart attached to a pulley on an almost frictionless system). from this it was determined that, the more bobbers that were attached to the hanging end of the pulley, the larger the acceleration. this was determined by using data studio to measure the acceleration of the system when each test was done. the computer program not only calculated the acceleration, but it also calculated the uncertainty. the highest uncertainty value from all the tests for lab 05 of 0.01 was used. using the data collected from data studio, the hanging force, in newtons, was calculated for the independent variable and the acceleration for the dependent variable was used to create the graph, figure 1. the data is also shown in table 2. using the data and the graph it was determined that, as the hanging mass increases the acceleration will increase with it. this can be viewed on the graph due to the independent and dependent variable being positively correlated. the error bars for this graph (0.01) are there although they are too small to be seen on the graph. from the graph a mathematical model was created using excel which was this supports our finding because the 0.0054 is the slop value and shows that the values are moving in the positive direction on the graph. that illustrates that there is a positive correlation which supports the prediction since the acceleration is increasing with the increase in the hanging force. so, the equation is able to support the prediction of the experiment and the theoretical model. the second lab (lab 06) looked at using the data collected from the first lab to determine what the mass would be if a certain acceleration was given. the lab also had each group present their findings from the prior week to the class for comparison and analysis purposes. figure 2 shows the calculations that were made to find the correct mass to use for the hanging force. the independent and dependent variable stayed the same, but the control variable changed slight in that different bobbers and a different cart were used so the mass of them changed. bobbers as well as paper clips were used to calculate the create the mass of 16.25g and data studio was used to find the uncertainty and acceleration. this part of the experiment was completed in one trial with 3 bobbers and two paperclips to create a mass of 16.25. from this an uncertainty of 0.00087 was found and an acceleration of 0.441 m/s2 was found which is close to the acceleration it is supposed to be but does differ given different errors that could of and did occur in lab. the errors that could have affected this are that although the system was almost frictionless it was not completely frictionless which could have affected acceleration and the mass calculated may have not been as exact as it was supposed to be due human error or using a balance that doesn’t go to the third decimal place. 

	the presentations from the second part of the experiment (lab 06) showed that other groups experiments supported our findings. this is shown by comparing the findings of group 3 (figure 3) and our findings. by looking at the graph from group 3, which is on their board and our graph (figure 1) which are very similar, and both show a positive correlation. the slopes are also similar, with ours being .0054 and their slope being .0051. this further exemplifies that their finding supports our findings. group 4’s findings also supported our findings using their table and equation from their board. their table shows a positive correlation because both their values, hanging force and acceleration, both increases. their mathematical model also shows a positive correlation because the slope value is positive, the m value in the $y=m x+b$ equation model. both of these factors show that their graph has a positive correlation and based on the table, their graph would also have the same independent and dependent variable because the table shows it and it is mentioned on their board. since their graph also shows a positive correlation it further supports our findings. 

	if a heavy string was used to connect the hanging weight, this would cause the acceleration not to change. the mass of the string would be considered a control variable since it is a part of the mass of the system. because of this it would not affect the uniform acceleration of the system.  

	different errors that occurred in lab could have contributed to having answers that are different than the actual or expected answers. the errors that were discussed earlier in the discussion about how the system was not entirely frictionless would be a systematic error because it would only change the answers in one direction, it would decrease the acceleration. the other error of having a balance that does go to the 3rd decimal place would also be a random error because the measurement could go above or below the actual weight based on how the person weighing it read the balance, this could also be considered a rounding error. this error can be corrected for by doing more trials or using a more exact balance, an electronic balance.  another error would have to do with uncertainty that was calculated form data studio and would also be a rounding error. in this case the uncertainty was given in the thousandth decimal place, but it should be moved to the hundredth because of the slope that was calculated. since this is rounding error which is considered a random error, it could be corrected by doing more trials. another error that would have to do with the balance would be using a balance they may not have been calibrated correctly, this would be a systematic error because it would give errors that would be consistently above or consistently below what they are supposed to be. although this would be difficult to correct, if it is known that the balance is incorrect, one could either add or subtract how much the balance is incorrect by from the values it determines, or one could simply use a properly calibrated balance. 

	there were constraints that occurred in this lab and prevented the generalizability of the results. one constraint would be that the system was not completely frictionless, this would be because this added an error to the lab and prevented us from being able to calculate precise accelerations since the friction was not really accounted for. this can be really seen in lab 06 when we were trying to find a force to go with the given acceleration. this is part of the reason our found acceleration from the experiment was slightly different from the exact value that the ta provided. to reiterate, since we did not have a completely frictionless system we were not able to get the exact acceleration from the force we calculated. another constraint would be not taking this lab seriously, this would cause errors to happen and prevent one from getting correct or exact values. 
