discussion/conclusion:

in this lab we wanted to see how applying a force to a system affects its acceleration. our hypothesis was that if we increased the applied force, the acceleration would also increase proportionally. our experiment addresses this question of how the system was affected because we did several trials in which we added weight to a system as the force and measured the acceleration that followed as a consequence of that added force. raw data and a figure are provided to show the results of this (table 2 and figure 1). our theoretical model given in table 1, was $a=\frac{f}{m}$. this model directly represents what we are trying to figure out in this lab, how force and mass affect acceleration. so, this theoretical model tells us that our acceleration should be equal to the amount of force applied divided by the mass of the system. our mathematic model however was $a= c1 f +c2$. this model will help incorporate the amount of error in our experiment (given as c2) as well as c1 which was 1/the total mass of the system. 

other groups data is 



the data from both groups is helpful in comparison to ours to see if other groups got similar results. the other groups data supported our hypothesis. as the applied force increased in each group, they found that the acceleration increased, as did we. all controls for each group matched ours as well as the experimental model and mathematical model. 

the mathematical and theoretical model are related in that they both include factors that affect acceleration. however, the mathematical model is much more accurate in that it includes possible error. the forces other than the hanging weight involved in this system would be gravity, and tension. gravity is included in the experimental model when we calculated the applied force which was mass multiplied by gravity. this calculation is what gave us our total applied force. tension force is not included in the experimental explicitly but may be included in the error (c2). this is possible error because this tension force may have had an overall affect on the acceleration of the system. 

possible random errors in this lab are that we set the cart up and turned on the airtrack and it took away the friction which let the cart start moving. this means there would be a fraction of the time that there was friction involved, we did not account for this. a possible systematic error in this lab would be that the tension force between the car and the mass would affect the acceleration of the system and therefore affect our results. these errors could both be reduced. we could have held onto the cart for the portion of time that friction was being removed to be able to achieve a more accurate acceleration. as far as to reduce this systematic error we could have calculated the amount of tension force that the system was also applying and subtract it to also get a more accurate acceleration and therefore more accurate results. constraints that limited the generalizability of our results would be again, that we only have so much time in a lab period to be able to complete the lab. given unlimited time, we could be more accurate and get better results. another possible constraint would be that we only have the equipment that we are given in this lab and so its accuracy is unknown to us. in final conclusion, we can say that when we increase an applied force on a system, the acceleration increases.