conclusions

	the purpose of this lab was to determine what factors, if any, would affect the period of a pendulum for small swings. the first experiment was meant to provide a baseline understanding of what factors could affect the period of the pendulum. this lab’s main purpose was to collect data using the three independent variables that we thought of. we then lightly analyzed this data to see if we initially thought there was any significant trend. according to the basic graphs, without any trend lines or error bars, we concluded that length more than likely had a correlation and the other two variables were unlikely. the next lab was largely used to analyze the data. we learned basic statistics and enhanced our understanding of how to analyze the data. the main method was to understand the standard deviation and how we could use it to determine how statistically significant the data was. the first three graphs had error bars and trend lines added to them and the data became much easier to understand. the first graph, period as a function of length, has a trend line that makes sense and error bars that don’t overlap between its smallest and largest values. this would suggest that there is some statistical evidence that there is a correlation between length and period. this doesn’t hold true for graphs 2 and 3. graph two’s wild shifting of data could be attributed to random error, but even omitting this outlier point the graph still doesn’t show any significant correlation with similar results holding true into graph 3. lab 3 was then used to record more data for whatever variable we felt influenced the period. in this case it was only the length of the string. we used this as an opportunity to eliminate some of the random error by removing the human element from recording the period and using a photogate. this change ensured that we got the best data possible. the greater range in data also helped us see the correlation between the period and length. in graph four this can be seen by the lack of overlap between the two error bars and especially the extremely high r squared value recorded. this value denotes that much of the data is explained by the trend line presented. the equation of this line was then compared to the actual equation used to determine period of small pendulums. in doing so we could assess how good our data was and determine how well this experiment answered the initial question. the equation ends up being 



compared to the trend line of .2002x.5005. when fully worked out the coefficient of l in the theoretical equation is 2.007 so extremely close to our model. out data almost perfectly fits this theoretical model due to its high r-squared value and the equation of said line of best fit almost being the same. it also corroborates the idea that mass and angle have no effect on the period as they are not represented in this equation. this means that our initial reasoning and later testing of the other variables was accurate. any experiment is going to have a certain amount of variance in its results and some of these stem from errors made while conducting the experiment. some of these errors were random and we did our best to reduce them as we caught them. human reaction time was accommodated for by using the same timer for each trial so if the data was off it was all off by approximately the same amount, and in the final trial a photogate was used eliminating this issue altogether. differences in measuring positions (one side of the string or mass or possibly skewing the angle slightly be measuring on different sides of the protractor) could lead to values being skewed slightly high or low and these were accounted for by standardizing exactly what position on the apparatus was being used when measurements were made. some systematic errors that we attempted to correct for were a breakdown of some apparatuses. remeasuring all masses to ensure that they were still the stated amount, assigning error to the photogate, and measuring with multiple measuring tapes to combat possible stretching were all valid ways to cut down. the most effective way of reducing all forms of error was calculating the standard deviation and using this error to analyze the data. in doing so it was possible for us to state that with 95% confidence that the period of a pendulum in small swings is affected by the length of the string on which it is swung.