Discussion and Conclusion
In this lab, the research question asked how the acceleration of the system changes when the applied force changes. To test this research question, the group decided that the mass of the system would be all the bobbers, the cart, and the string (which had negligible mass). Each time a trial was performed, a bobber on the cart would be moved to the hanging mass that was attached to the cart with the string. This way, the mass of the total system stayed the same, but the hanging mass changed, changing the applied force on the system. To clarify, the independent variable in this experiment was the mass of the hanging weight and the dependent variable was the acceleration of the system. 
When this experiment was tested, Table 1 shows the six different trials that were done, each with another bobber moved to add to the hanging weight on the cart. In Figure 1 the linear best fit line shows that the prediction given in the experimental design template was an accurate prediction. Figure 1 also shows that as the mass of the hanging bobbers (which is the force applied to the system) increases, the acceleration of the system increases as well. The error bars shown in Figure 1 are too small to be seen (Uncertainty was variable for each different trial, the uncertainties can be found in Table 1) which means they do not cross each other so there is a discernable impact on the acceleration of the system when the hanging weight is increased.

The first group that was compared to the findings of our group was labeled Group Sato. Group Sato had a similar mass for the total system but did not provide a length of the string which was a control variable. Group Sato’s findings in Figure 2 support the findings from our group because they have the same linear trend in their graph that is presented in our graph in Figure 1. The data presented in Table 1 is also very similar to the data presented in their table in Figure 2. This evidence shown in Figure 2 from Group Sato’s experiment supports the hypothesis that was predicted in the experimental design plan from lab 05.
The first group that was compared to the findings of our group was labeled Group Sato. Group Sato had a similar mass for the total system but did not provide a length of the string which was a control variable. Group Sato’s findings in Figure 2 support the findings from our group because they have the same linear trend in their graph that is presented in our graph in 
The second group that was compared to the findings of our group was unnamed so for this report this group will be referred to as Group 2. Group 2 presented their graph of acceleration of the system vs force in Figure 3 on a graph. This graph is a similar depiction of the graph that our group received after completing the experiment. Although the graphs presented were similar, the equation from Group 2 was $y=4.762 x - 0.053$ and the equation from our group was $y=5 e - 6 x - 0.0131$. There is a significant difference between the two even though the graphs were strikingly similar. This evidence shown in Figure 3 from Group 2’s experiment overall supports the hypothesis that was predicted in the experimental design plan from lab 05.
The theoretical equation provided by the TA in lab was $a=\frac{f}{m}$ or $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$ (as given in the lab rubric). When we compared the mathematical relationship between the acceleration and the applied force the group found that it was a linear relationship. As said in lab records 05, the relationship is $y=5^{-6x}-0.0131$. The group decided that this relationship does make sense because the mass of the system remains constant throughout the experiment, but the acceleration linearly increases so the applied force must increase as the acceleration increases. The model that was found in lab 05 was 0.0053 or 5-2 , which is considerably larger than the 5-6 than we observed from the equation in our experiment.
In the scenario where there is a heavy string where the mass of the string is not negligible, the acceleration of the system would increase, but it would increase uniformly. In that experiment the mass of the system would still be the same throughout the experiment, but the string being heavier would increase the acceleration because there would be a larger hanging weight creating a larger force on the cart. I predict that the acceleration would still increase linearly but that the equation overall would have a higher y-intercept because the mass of the system would be larger overall.
Possible random errors in the experiment are is  a slow or fast reaction time releasing the cart on the air track, which would make the results slightly off on the graph and in the table, the bobbers were not individually weighed before they were used in the experiment, so the different experiments could have had a slightly different mass for the system. Possible systematic errors for this experiment are is  the range of uncertainty in ability of the balance to measure the weight of the system and the hanging mass accurately. We could reduce these errors by having more than just six trials to make the reaction time more accurate, weighing everything in the experiment beforehand, and lastly, using an electronic balance so that all measurements are as precise and accurate as possible.
One of the constraints of the experiment was the starting point on the air track was only lined up by eyesight, so it has the possibility to be an inaccurate measurement. Another constraint in the experiment was the group did not have enough time to complete as many trials as we would have preferred so if more trials could have been performed then the results could have been more accurate. One last constraint in the experiment was that we could not test the experiment with a string mass that was not negligible so if that was important to the experiment, it was left out of the experiment.