discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of this experiment was to determine if the acceleration of a system will change if the applied force on the system changes. the independent variable being investigated was the applied force measured in newtons and the dependent variable was acceleration (m/s). figure 1, a graph of acceleration vs. applied force, has one point of uncertainty. one value does not perfectly follow along the positive linear slope. all of the other points have very small values of uncertainty and create a positive linear slope. this slope indicates that there is a clear change in the acceleration as the applied force increases. this data supports the hypothesis that the acceleration is affected by the applied force.

	the experiment addresses the research question by isolating the independent variable and investigating it as isolated as much as possible. by keeping all of the other variables the same, it makes it possible to investigate the desired variable alone. the mathematical model that was obtained is $y=0.0045 x + 0.0511$. in this model the slope represents 1/mass which is held constant and the y-intercept component represents the force of friction. the mathematical model differs from the theoretical model, $f=m a$, because in the theoretical model friction is negligible. the mathematical model addresses the research question because by using the equation you can determine if the acceleration is affected by the applied force. 



	both groups have items that refute and support the data collected from my own group. the blue image has a similar force of friction but a different slope. the green image has a similar slope but different force of friction. these similarities support the data retrieved that the acceleration increases as the applied force increases. the slope in both cases are positive and linear which match the slope we found. the differences that refute our data and findings could be due to random and systematic errors from both groups of investigators. possible random errors could be improper measuring of the mass of the bobs and the mass of the system. possible systematic errors include inconsistent tension in the string and friction with the pulley. 

the mathematical model differs from the theoretical model, $f=m a$, because in the theoretical model friction is negligible. other forces that could be present in the experiment are friction, air resistance, gravity, and tension in the string. these forces would not be incorporated into the theoretical model. the mass of the system shows up in the experimental model in the slope. it is represented by 1/the mass. a nonmassless string connecting the mass to the cart would increase the acceleration because it would decrease the mass of the system. since the force would stay the same the mass and acceleration would have an inverse effect on each other. many errors could have occurred when performing this experiment. one error that occurred was using the balance to weigh the bobs and the mass of the system. the scale is not completely accurate because it used so many times, this is an example of a systematic error. another systematic error could be that the air track could be uneven and not completely flat which would result in bumping with the cart which could result in a decrease in acceleration. other random errors that occurred were when measuring the mass of the bob and reading the balance incorrectly, this would result in inaccurate measurements and results. this experiment had a few constraints that would limit the generizability of the results. the independent variable, applied force, was only tested in a certain range. this variable could have been further tested to reduce the amount of constraints on this experiment and provide more data to further support the results of this experiment. 


