Discussion and Conclusion: The purpose of this lab was to determine if the applied force acting on a system affected the acceleration of the system. By keeping the mass of the system, the force of friction, and the acceleration due to gravity constant, the impact that the applied force has on a system’s acceleration was able to be studied. The equation of the line from Figure 1 is $y=6.2834 x - 0.073$ where y represents the acceleration, x represents the applied force, 6.2834 is equal to 1/the mass of the cart in kilograms, and -0.0734 is equal to the value of friction working on the system. The theoretical equation can then be written $a=\frac{kg}{m}$ Applied Force)-Force of friction. Comparing the equation from Figure 1 and the theoretical equation reveals that the two equations are identical. If the known values from this lab were plugged into the theoretical equation, then the resulting equation would be the mathematical equation. As mentioned before the mass shows up in the experimental model as the slope. However, this value is 1/mass of the cart. The mass also affects the force of friction, so the mass affects the y-intercept as well. As mentioned, the force of friction is present in the system, and it is present in the experimental model as the y-intercept. Air resistance could also be acting on the hanging mass, but its role on the system should be negligible. A non-massless string should not affect the uniform acceleration of the cart, as long as the mass of the system stays constant. The slope of the line of best fit in Figure 1 is positive, so force is shown to have a direct impact on the acceleration of a system. The findings in this lab were similar to the findings conducted by Bruant, Macri, Riebel, and Tebbe in 2018, in that both mathematical models have a positive slope that is equal to 1 over the mass of the cart (see Figure 2). 
This lab was not conducted without error. Systematic error was present in this lab because one of the bobbers used for the hanging mass weighed more than the other bobbers. This made the calculation for force slightly inaccurate. To reduce systematic error a different bobber could have been used, and to prevent further systematic error all measuring devices should be recalibrated. Random error was also present in this lab. To reduce random error more trials could be done. There were a few constraints during this experiment that came in the form of friction. Carlie, Macey, Zach, and Nisha found that friction was also present during the experiment, and this can be seen in their mathematical model in Figure 3 as well as in the mathematical model created for this lab (2018). This is due to the fact it is near impossible to have a frictionless surface for the cart to ride along. Other than friction there were not any other major constraints. Therefore, based on the data from this lab and the data from Carlie, Macey, Zach, and Nisha as well as the data from Bruant, Macri, Riebel, and Tebbe, a direct positive relationship is shown between the applied force acting on a system and the acceleration of the system.