discussion and conclusion 

the research question being investigated in this lab: will changing the length of the string, the weight, or the angle of release on a pendulum affect the time it takes for the pendulum to complete one full swing? 
the first experiment, which involved changing the length of the string and recording the pendulum period time, showed that the length of the string is not related to the period time of the pendulum swing. by looking at figure 1, we it can be seen that the error bars overlap each other for each of the different string lengths. the standard deviation (uncertainty) of +,- 0.13547 seconds is too large to make a connection between the two variables. even with the equivalency criterion of two standard deviation, the bars still overlap. this concludes that the length of the string does not affect the period time of the pendulum. 
on the other hand, by looking at figure 4, it can be concluded that there is, in fact, a relationship between length of string and the period time of a pendulum. the error bars in this graph do not overlap each other. the standard deviation (uncertainty) is only +, 0.001 seconds, which is very small. this is due to the fact that the photogate is much more accurate and precise than having a person time the period of a pendulum with a stopwatch. there are more errors associated with using a person time the pendulum period rather than using the photogate. 

the second experiment, which involved changing the weight of the pendulum and recording the pendulum period time, showed that the weight of the pendulum is not related to the period time of the pendulum swing. figure 2 proves this because the error bars on each average period time for the different weights of the pendulum do overlap each other. the standard deviation (uncertainty) was +,- 0.083594, which is too large to make a connection between the two variables. again, even with the equivalency criterion of two standard deviation, the bars still overlap. therefore, the weight of the pendulum does not affect the period time of a pendulum swing. 
the third experiment, which involved changing the angle of release of the pendulum and recording the pendulum period time, showed that the weight of the pendulum was not related to the time it took the pendulum to complete one full swing. figure 3 shows that the error bars on each average pendulum swing time for the different angle of releases overlap each other. this is because the standard deviation (uncertainty) was +,- 0.1 seconds, and since the averages were so close together, the error bars will overlap. this will be the same with the equivalency criterion of two standard deviation. this concludes that the angle of release of the pendulum does not affect the period time of a pendulum swing. 
the theoretical mathematical equation is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ .the variable that affects the period time of a pendulum is the length of the string. our theoretical equation for figure 4 was $y=2.0613 x^{0.4108}$ . our equation does not match the theoretical equation exactly, but the photogate has an uncertainty of 0.001 (given), and since our r2 is less than 1, it will not match it exactly. in order for it to match, the experiment would have to be done under perfect conditions. figure 4 shows that the pattern is apparent over the entire test range, showing that as the length of the string increases, so does the time it takes the pendulum to complete one full swing. the mathematical dependence on figure 4 is a power. the variables that did not affect the period time of a pendulum were the weight of the pendulum and the angle of release of the pendulum. the mathematical dependence on the variables that did not affect period time, weight and angle of release, will both have mathematical dependences that are linear because there are large uncertainties that are present. 
possible errors that were present could have been random or systematic. the random errors that could have happened during this experiment were starting or stopping the stopwatch too early or too late, or possibly dropping the pendulum at a different angle of degree than what was measured. these random errors could have been fixed by being more accurate and precise when starting and stopping the stopwatch, and making sure that the pendulum is not moved after measuring the angle of release. the systematic errors that could have happened during this experiment were not having a level environment for the stand to sit on, resulting in an angle that is not true to what is measured, or not using weights of equal mass each trial. these systematic errors could have been fixed by finding a level environment for the stand to sit on, and by using the same mass of weights for each trial. 
one constraint that may have been present in this experiment and may limit the generalizability of the results would be that the experiment had to be done in a short time frame. if there was more time allowed to conduct the experiment, more data could have been taken resulting in more accurate and precise results. by doing this in a short amount of time, the general overall results would be less accurate than if more data was able to be collected.  another constraint would be that this experiment was broken up over a three week period. over time the string could have been stretched out, a new tape measure could have been used, a different stop watch could have been used, or even different weights could have been used. this would limit the results from being as accurate as possible because new materials with different uncertainties would cause results to be farther away from the true value. 
