conclusion:
The initial experiment that was performed was to test how the acceleration of a system would change when the force applied to it changed. The laboratory group hypothesized that as the force applied to the system increased, that the acceleration would also increase. A graphical depiction of the hypothesis is shown in Picture 1. A system was set up using a small cart that was propelled using air to test this hypothesis. The cart was attached to a string that was ran through a device that would measure the carts acceleration. The cart and string in total always had five bobbers attached to them to ensure that the total mass of the system was always the same (control variable).  The independent variable in the experiment was the number of bobbers that were placed on the string to be the applied force. Every time that we moved a bobber from the cart to the string and ran the cart we measured the dependent variable, which was the acceleration of the cart. The data recorded from the experiment can be seen in Table 1. 

We then graphed the data so that we could determine the correlation between the speed and the acceleration, which can be seen in Graph 1 below. The line of best fit has a r2-value of 0.9999 which indicates that the line fits the data very well and shows that there is a positive relationship between the acceleration and the force applied to the system, meaning that as the force applied to the system is increased the acceleration also increases. With this graph we determined that our mathematical model was $y=0.0053 x - 0.026$. The error in the error in the y-direction was +/-0.00198 and in the x-direction was 0.001, which is too small to be seen on the graph. 


	In the second lab meeting relating to this experiment, the laboratory group was tasked with producing an acceleration of 0.5 meters per second by using our mathematical model, but this time the cart that we were given was larger. When we compared our model to other groups in the lab, we realized that we had used grams to do the calculations, and not kilograms, which is why our numbers looked so different than some of the other groups’ equations (seen in picture 2 below). Looking at our mathematical model of $y=0.0053 x - 0.026$, we determined that the force of friction in the previous experiment was -0.0026, and that even though this cart was slightly larger, it would be about the same we used  0.5 is [mh(9.8)-(-.026)]/318.8. When we solved for the mass of the hanging bobbers (mh) we found the mh is 16 grams, about three bobbers. But, when the cart was ran with three bobbers on the string and five on the cart (keeping the total number of bobbers added to the system at 8) we measured the acceleration at 0.39 meters per second. When we calculated the acceleration if the string held four bobbers it would be 0.62 meters per second squared. So, we ran the cart with four bobbers on the cart and four bobbers on the string and got the acceleration of 0.537 meters per second squared. We reasoned that the initial force of friction that we had determined was too high, and thus had skewed the equation slightly. 
	There may still be small amounts of human error in the measurements of the distance the cart starts from the acceleration measuring device, or even in the measurement of the mass of the carts and bobbers, but the laboratory group still concluded that there was still a positive linear association between acceleration and the force applied to the system. This can be seen not only in our mathematical model, but also in the model of the other groups in the lab, which have mostly very similar numbers compared to our group, considering that some are larger than others because not everyone did their calculations using grams like we did. 
	