discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this lab is to investigate what factors have an effect on the length of a period of a pendulum swing in order to answer the question “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings”. the factors tested were the mass, length of string and angle of release. by timing the period of a pendulum with varying weights attached to the end of the string, it could be concluded whether or not weight has an impact on the period (data table 1b). similarly, by changing the angle at which the string is held when released, the resulting period times can be used to see if angle impacts period (data table 1c). and lastly, changing the lengths of the string of the pendulum depicts how the varying size of swing affects the time of the period (data table 1a). 

	at the conclusion of each of these experiments, it was determined that only length had an effect on the period of a pendulum. figure 1 and figure 2 depict the obvious trend that as length increases, the period of the pendulum increases. the error bars cannot be aligned on either of these graphs which proves that there is a correlation between the length and period. originally, it was thought that mass and angle also affected period but based on the error bars seen in figures 3 and 4 after two standards of deviation were applied, there is no correlation between the mass and angle and the period of the pendulum. we are 95% confident in these results. 

the experiment testing the effects of the length on the period was duplicated in the last week of lab using a photogate to measure the period instead of a timer. this resulted in much more accurate measurements and got rid of some of the inevitable human error from timing the period. the photogate has almost no uncertainty in the measurements, with a scale of error of .001 seconds. the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$   . from this experiment, the model $t=0.2039x^{0.4948}$ was determined as depicted in figure 1 as the slope of the graph. using this model, we predicted the period of a .50 m string would be 1.42 seconds. the tested results from the experiment depicted a .55m string to have a period of 1.4 seconds which is very close to the theoretical model’s results, proving that the theoretical model is supported by the mathematical model.





as stated earlier, there were some errors made throughout this experiment. likely random errors that occurred include slight inaccuracies in measurements of length and angles, weights not being perfectly aligned on pendulum, as well as inevitable human errors like slight differences in swings or not completely precise timing of the period. these mistakes can account for the differences seen in the mass and angle experiments when the period should have stayed consistent. systematic errors including worn out tape measurers, a cracked protractor or inaccurate weights may also account for these discrepancies. to eliminate as much of these errors as possible we had one group member assigned to one aspect of the experiment to ensure precision of the measurements, as well as performing numerous trials. checking that all equipment is functioning well and is in good condition would also get rid of some inaccuracies. when all factors remained constant (shown in data table 2), a very low standard of deviation (.0618) was calculated, revealing very few variation in the periods of a pendulum and proving the data to be accurate. however, the way in which the pendulum is released as well as exactly where the experimenters measure the pendulum from may result in significant differences in the period of pendulum recorded from varying groups. this constraint within the experiment will make it difficult to conclude the exact times of a period for each measured factor. the trends, however, will not change and it can still be concluded that only the length of the pendulum has a significant effect on the period of a pendulum.