discussion

the purpose of these experiments was to determine whether the acceleration of a system would change if the amount of applied force also changes. from running the experiment, it was found that the more force applied via the hanging bobs (iv) did affect the acceleration (dv) by increasing it.  this can be seen via the linear relationship displayed in the excel graph, an increase in force (n) correlates to an increase in acceleration (m/s2).  this can also be stated to be true with the results from groups 1 and 2.  data from their results confirms that acceleration increases as the amount of force applied from the hanging bobs increases.  

the theoretical model for this experiment was found to be $a=\frac{f}{m}$ with the constant being determined to be around 0.005609.  from the results obtained, the experimental model was found to be 0.005x – 0.0338. in the experimental model, the mass of the system is found in the constant, which is 1/mass of the system.  this model found supports the theoretical model with the experimental model’s constant only being a little off and the latter portion constant of -0.0338 being attributed to factors such as friction force and systematic error.  a heavier string would mean a greater mass for the entire system. with a greater mass of the entire system, a larger acceleration would be predicted.  

the errors in this lab could be attributed to both random and systematic errors.  random errors in this lab could be due to rounding errors in calculations and reaction time in stopping the datastudio app.  these random errors can be reduced by ensuring the person in carefully and consistent and taking, recording, and calculating all data.  the systematic error in this lab could be due to the instruments used not being calibrated.  these systematic errors can be reduced by ensuring all equipment is working and calibrated properly.  constraints in this experiment had to do with time and the amount of trial run.  with more time, more trials could have been run to get a more precise experimental mathematical model.