discussion and conclusion

	the question that was trying to be answered in this experiment was does changing different iv of a pendulum influence its overall period for swings. the iv that were investigated in this experiment were length of string, angle of release, and mass for the pendulum. first starting off with the length of string for the pendulum it was determined that it does influence the period of the pendulum. as the string is increased in length it is seen increasing the overall period for the pendulum. graph 1 shows this, and it fits into a power graph. it shows that it increases as the length increases. the error bars in the graph show that they overlap which means that the values could be the same. the next one is the angle of release of the pendulum. in graph 2, it shows that the period is extremely close together regardless of the angle that was picked for the release. this shows that the angle of release does not factor into the period of the pendulum. the error bars for graph 2 have some overlap but not completely. this can be used to determine that this data is significant for this iv. the last iv that was looked at was the mass of the pendulum. in graph 3, it shows that there is some fluctuation in the mass, but it is not consistent enough to state that it directly affects the period of the pendulum. in this case, it is shown not to affect the period and any mass could be added to the pendulum without interfering. the error bars for graph 3 show that there is some overlap but not enough which indicates that this data is significant. 

the theoretical mathematical model for the pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. we were not able to come up with the true model because in that model gravity is being used which we did not account for in our experiment. looking at graph 1, it is seen that the data almost perfectly fits in with a power curve line. 

some systematic errors that was found to arise during the experiment was that the stopwatch my not be working properly. it also could be off with the stop and start throwing off the measurements for time. this can be corrected by using a program on a computer to keep track of the time or to full determine what the period is for the pendulum. another is that the weight machine could not be calibrated properly, and false masses are given before starting the trials. this can be corrected by making sure it is calibrated before taking the mass if not then fix it or have help fixing it. for random errors that biggest one that occurred was the person recording the time might be off slightly each time or not relay the stop quick enough accounting for unwanted swings. another is the investigator taking the length measurements could be off slightly or misread and cause the string to be too long. this could be fixed by having everyone look at the length before starting or running extra trials to even out the error.