conclusion and discussion



the hypothesis formed that all three variables mass, angle release, and the length of the string would all affect the period of a pendulum was rejected. after the data was collected it was proven that only the length of the string had an effect on how long the periods were of the pendulum. this conclusion was formed from performing three trials of the time of the periods. once a more advanced tool was brought about it was easier to get accurate results, with the uncertainty being 0.001. after multiple trials were done for each experiment and variable it was a clear result through graphs that the length of the string was the only variable that had an effect on the period of the pendulum. as the length of the string changed so did the time of the period. the data collected for the angle release and mass showed small changes with each trial, but they were not large nor significant enough after the error bars were calculated to have any effect on this experiment. the length of the string produced the equation $y=0.126445 x$ with an r2 value of 0.9986. the r value came out as expected since it is closer to 1, this means that the points formed on graph 2 were extremely close to one another. these numbers help support the conclusion that the length of the string is the only variable that affects the period of the pendulum. 

to help support the conclusion that the length of the string was the only factor that affected the period of the pendulum errors were taken into consideration. majority of the random errors came from using a stopwatch instead of the photogate. also, random error could have come from having one person start the photogate and one person releasing the pendulum resulting in improper starting point leading to errors. the photogate helped to eliminate systematic errors by having a low standard deviation of 0.001. the length of the string could only reach a max of a certain number of centimeters which restricted the experiment from how much data could be collected. taking into account the errors and trials performed the final conclusion is that the length of the string was the only variable that affect the period of a pendulum.