discussion & conclusion:

the general research question that we are investigating is “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?” this encompasses testing three different variables to see the impact each has on the period of a pendulum. through many trials and analysis, there seems to be one variable that influences the period, the length of the string. when mass was investigated, we used 5 different masses ranging from 20 g to 300 g. this resulted only in a period ranging from 1.40 to 1.47 s. this is not a very large range which can be seen with the error bars. since we use ±2σ, we can imagine the error bars as twice as high as shown on the graph. in figure 2, the error bars all intersect each other and overlap in the values they cover. this shows a close relationship, showing that mass has little impact on the period of a pendulum. the next variable we tested was the angle of drop. this iv turned out to be like the mass’s results. we used an angle of 30°, 60°, and 90° which resulted in periods of 0.96 s., 0.98 s., and 1.02 s., respectively. in figure 3 the error bars are shown, and the range of the uncertainty overlaps for each. this, again, shows a weak relationship. the graph looks to have a positive correlation but using the error bars tells a different story. one way to further show this weak relationship would be to run more trials with different angles to further support that the angle of drop does not affect the period. the last variable we tested was the length of the string. this variable seemed to have a different effect compared to the other two. the first trial we ran testing this variable there was a much larger range of periods which were 0.72 s to 0.98 s. this was compared against string lengths of 5 to 25 cm. the graph representing this data (figure 1) has a strong positive correlation. what further supports this are the error bars. the error bars imagined as doubled still do not include the highest and lowest data points. this was further supported when we used a photogate sensor. this sensor accurately timed the period for us, eliminating any random error where we could have messed up the timing. this created the data and graph that can be examined in table 7 and figure 4. as seen in the data the range is even larger than the previous trial without the sensor. what is most supportive of our analysis is the error bars and accompanying mathematical analysis. with a wide range of data, the standard deviation would look smaller because it measures the spread. so, because the error bars are unable to be seen, we can conclude the relationship is strong between the string length and the period which supports a positive correlation. we then drew a power trendline where it can be seen as almost as identical as our line connecting the points. the equation for this line is $y=0.10092186 x$. we then found an r2 value of 1. this helps support that the data has a 100% fit to this trend. with this analysis and data supporting the trend, we can conclude that the length of string influences the period of a pendulum. so, as the length of the string increases, the period will also increase. with this conclusion we can then say my initial prediction was correct. as for the other two variables, these predictions turned out to be incorrect after the investigation concluded and we can say the mass and drop angle has no effect on the period. with this data comes a theoretical mathematical model which is $t=2\pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$   . this equation relates the period to the length of the string and gravity. since we are unable to account for gravity we really can’t use this to test the variables. if we were able to change the gravity, then we would be able to see the effect gravity has on the period. even though we cannot test it, we can see that length is the only variable that is related to the period. even though we do try to eliminate all errors, there will still be some type of error. some random errors are not stopping the stopwatch all at the same time in the first trials. this was remedied by using the photogate (for the string variable) but for more confident data we may want to use the sensor for all the data gathered. another error is not dropping from the exact angle each drop. even though this has no effect on the period we want an exact procedure for each trial to get the strongest data. the only way this can be remedied is finding a way to drop from the same angle or have an automatic dropper. another type of error is systematic. one systematic error is not properly measuring the string. this must be fixed to show the most consistent data. if the participants measure the string the same way, then the error will shift the data one way, which is not good for experimental design. this error is best to cut out and consistently make sure the measurements are being taken accurately. this lab was rather easy to construct and run but the data can only be generalized to other similar pendulum situations. because we do not know how gravity is acting on the bob we really do not know what the pendulum may do in other parts of the world. therefore, we can only generalize to small swing pendulums. some other constraints are that we only can make such a big pendulum. if we wanted to see what may happen with larger swings, we may need a larger pendulum. the size of pendulum we made can only be so big, keeping the generalizability to small swing pendulums. pendulums are a rather simple structure that exemplify several physics topics. these structures are great to study and learn physics’ principles from; we now have learned that the length of the string is the only variable that affects the period of a pendulum.
