discussion and conclusion: 



in this lab, we had the opportunity to test the effects of a multitude of factors on the period of a pendulum. these factors, serving as the independent variables to our experiments, consisted of the angle of the pendulum block released, the mass of the pendulum block, and the length of the string that was attached to the pendulum block. in each of our experiments, we monitored our dependent variable, the period of the pendulum. while one variable was being tested, the other variables were kept constant. 

in our first experiment depicted in part 1, we observed that there was a slight relationship between the angle of block release, and the period of the pendulum. according to table 1b, as the angle of block release was increased, a small increase in the period of the pendulum was observed. as the angle increased from 10 degrees, to 25 and 40 degrees, we observed the period of the pendulum increase from .07 and .11 seconds, respectively. this is further corroborated by graph 1. while the relatively short error bars between points 2 and 3 overlap slightly, the error bars between points 1 and 3 do not overlap, resulting in a slightly increasing trendline. therefore, according to this particular experiment, our hypothesis was supported. we believe there were some errors, however, that caused this positive relationship between angle of block release and the period of the pendulum. these errors will be discussed later in the report.  

in our second experiment seen in part 2, we observed that there was no relationship between the mass of the block and the period of the pendulum. upon first glance at table 2b, it is observed that there is a small incremental decrease of the period by .02 and .01 seconds respectively, as the mass of the block is increased from 50 grams, to 90 grams, and then to 130 grams. however, upon further observation of the data in graph 2, it can be seen that there are large overlapping error bars between all three data points. according to the equivalency criterion, this overlap in error bars signifies that a relationship could not be confirmed. thus, no correlation was observed, and our hypothesis was not supported. 

in our third experiment, observed in part 3, we observed that there was a relationship between the length of the string attached, and the period of the pendulum. according to table 3b, as the string length was increased from 30.5 centimeters to 68.5 and 92.5 centimeters, we observed an increase in the period of the pendulum from .98 seconds to 1.50 and 1.68 seconds, respectively. furthermore, graph 3 illustrates a positive correlation between the two variables, without overlapping error bars for any of the points. thus, our hypothesis was accepted. as the data showed a strong positive relationship between length of string attached and the period of the pendulum, further experiments were done to investigate these results. 

in our fourth experiment, the relationship between the length of the string attached and the period of the pendulum was further tested. to increase the accuracy of our findings, this time, a photogate apparatus was utilized. the data gathered, observed in table 4a, corroborated our findings from experiment 3. each increase in the length of the string resulted in an increase in the period of the pendulum. furthermore, according to graph 4, the error bars are so small, that they are not completely visible on our graph, with a range of uncertainty of .001. thus, this experiment was able to confirm our hypothesis and prediction. 

after performing our experiments, we found the theoretical mathematical model for the relationship between length of the attached string and the period of the pendulum to be $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{x}{g}}$ where “t” is the time of the period (seconds), “x” is length of string (meters), and “g” is the acceleration of gravity (-9.8m/s2). the other variables that were tested, such as mass of the pendulum block and the angle of block release, were not included in the theoretical model as variables that had any effect on the period of the pendulum. the mathematical model that we calculated from our data set is $y=0.303x^{0.4062}$. for example, we observed that at a string length of 8.7 centimeters (.087 meters), the period of the pendulum was .79 seconds. according to the theoretical mathematical model, the period of the pendulum for that same length of 8.7 centimeters is equal to .592 seconds. thus, the number we observed from our data is slightly higher than the theoretical model. therefore, while our hypothesis can be supported from our dataset and experimental mathematical model, our model is not quite accurate. a primary explanation for this discrepancy could be the fact that an inadequate amount of trials were performed. because time was a major constraint, we were not able to collect more than 3 data points. a larger pool of data could have aided in boosting the accuracy of our data.

throughout this lab, we experienced several random and systematic errors. one of the primary systematic errors that we encountered was that our measuring tape was slightly bent towards the top, near the hook. this could have caused our measurements to be slightly more than what the true measurement is, as more tape was required to cover the same length of space when we performed this experiment. another systematic error that we experienced was that the metal hook at the end of our tape was coming off. this could have caused our measurements to be larger, simply because the hook did not latch on properly every time, causing more stretch in the tape. these errors could be avoided in the future with the use of newer equipment that is solid and intact, with no physical impairments. the biggest random error we experienced was that the base of the pendulum became unstable when we raised the pendulum to the highest angle (40 degrees) during experiment 1, where we tested the relationship between the angle of block release and the period of the pendulum. during the experiment, when we extended the pendulum to a higher angle, the base started to tilt to the side, causing it to rock back and forth. this could have easily increased the period of the pendulum swing, simply because the base of the pendulum rocked slightly as well. this random error can be solved in the future by utilizing newer, sturdier equipment. some other random errors could have been instigated through variability in reaction time. this could involve the reaction time for how fast we were able to stop the timer each trial, as well as the reaction time in catching the pendulum at the exact point at which the pendulum completed its period. a way to minimize this random error is to utilize electronic measurement tools, such as the photogate apparatus, for each of the experiments, instead of relying on human data collection. one of the biggest constraints in this lab was the constraint of time. as mentioned previously, we were not able to take more than 3 measurements for each experiment. this could have led to less accurate results, when compared to the theoretical model, simply because more data is necessary. furthermore, due to the restricted lab time, we were not able to test the independent variables of “mass of pendulum block” and “angle of block release” and their relationship to period of the pendulum with the photogate apparatus, which could have significantly increased the accuracy of our results, and minimized the random error due to reaction time that we experienced.

through the set of experiments we were able to perform in this lab, we can support the findings that there is a positive relationship between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum. we observed a positive relationship as well between the angle of block release and the period of the pendulum, however, due to the random error we experienced at the highest angle tested, we cannot confirm the validity of our result. finally, we were able to support the findings that there is no relationship between the mass of the pendulum block, and the period of the pendulum. 




