discussion/conclusion
for the experiments conducted from lab 01 to lab 03 various experiments were performed in order to determine what variables of a pendulum affect its period. for the first experiment the angle of release of the pendulum was tested to see how it affected the length of the period. the dependent variable in this investigation was the period length which was measured in seconds. the independent variable was the angle, followed by the controlled variables which were the length of the pendulum, the mass of the pendulum, and all measurement tools utilized in this experiment. throughout the experiment various angles were tested and graphed in figure 3. the original hypothesis for this experiment stated that the angle would in fact alter the period length in a positive relationship in which increased angle would result in an increased period. figure 3 depicts the data for the experiment and resulted in a line with a slope equal to zero. the conclusion for this data can be expressed as the angle for the release of a pendulum does not in fact have an effect on the length of the period. from this data the hypothesis and prediction for this variable can be rejected.

the next experiment conducted tested how the mass of the pendulum would affect its period length. for this experiment the independent variable was the mass of the weight that was added to the end of the pendulum, the dependent variable was the length of the pendulum period, and the controlled variables were angle release, the length of the pendulum, and all tools utilized for measurement. the hypothesis for this experiment was that if the weight of the pendulum changed, then the period would change as well. the prediction stated that the increase in weight would result in an increase of period length. throughout the experiment various masses were added to the pendulum testing and timing the period each time. the data was then graphed in figure 3 in which the relationship between mass and period can be seen. the conclusion for this experiment was that mass indeed does not change the length of the period. when testing multiple different masses the period remained the same at around 1.4 seconds. in figure 3 the line for the data can be seen as having primarily a slope that is equal to zero. 

the third experiment conducted was collecting data for the relationship between lengths of the pendulum and how it affected the period length. in the experiment the independent variable was the length of the string for the pendulum which was increased and decreased in order to collect data. the dependent variable was the length in which the pendulum needed to complete one period. the controls were the angle the pendulum was released from, the mass at the end of the pendulum, and all measurement tools utilized in the experiment to collect data. the initial hypothesis for the experiment was that the pendulum length would affect the period length in that the length of the period would increase as the length of the pendulum increased. the data gathered was from the contributors in group 3 due to a faulty photogate at the original station. from the data it can be concluded that the change in pendulum length did in fact have an effect on the period. as shown in figure 1 when the length of the pendulum was increased, the period of the pendulum also increased. this can be seen in the graph that depicts a line through the data with a positive slope. the slope indicates a positive relationship between the length of the string and the length of the period. the equation depicted on the graph shows the relationship between the data and the r^2 value shows the fitness for the data collected. the r^2 value of .9997 is a very accurate fitness and therefore validate the data.



in the experiment the theoretical equation for the period of the pendulum when altering the length was is 

$t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$

for the equation l represents the length of the pendulum, g represents gravity, and t is the time needed for the pendulum to complete one period. by looking at the theoretical equation for the pendulum period time the lab data supports the theoretical equation in various ways. first, the equation represented on the figure 1 chart is comparable to the theoretical equation. additionally when analyzing the data collected in for the differing pendulum lengths the theoretical equation was used to calculate the theoretical period length for the different measurements tested. the theoretical periods for the pendulum lengths were very comparable to the periods that were collected in the experiment. this shows the validity of the data and equation derived from the graph in figure 1. 



throughout experiments random and systematic errors are almost always present. in the series of experiments performed some of these errors can be seen. for random error, this could have occurred when taking the measurement of the period length. for the mass and angle of release experiments the period was measured by team member emily hellman. by measuring the period with a human we expose the experiment to human error. if the contributor stopped the stopwatch too soon or too late it could have altered the length of the period and ultimately of the graph. in order to minimize this error a photogate was used to measure the length of the period in order to minimize random error. although the photogate did eliminate random error it still could have contributed to systematic error. if the photogate consistently measured the periods too short or too long the date could have been skewed along the vertical axis on the chart. in order to minimize this the photogate can be tested by releasing the same weight, length, and angle of the pendulum and seeing if the photogate collects the same period length. another systematic error that could have taken place is the stopwatch used could be been too fast or too soon altering the length of the periods time. this could be minimized by testing several different stop watches with each other to ensure that the one used in the experiment runs appropriately.