conclusion

the research question for this experiment was “how does the acceleration of the system change when the applied force changes?” from the data, we can conclude that acceleration of a system (m/) increases as applied force (n) increases. according to table 2 and figure 1, there is a positive correlation between the weight of the bob and the period of the pendulum, with a slope of 4.5626. the values along the x-axis were determined by multiplying the hanging weights by the gravitational constant of 9.81 m/. the values along the y-axis were determined by finding the slope of a graph displaying the measured velocities by time. these values where calculated by the datastudio program. all uncertainty values were determined by the datastudio program. both uncertainty values and standard deviation values were given, so the possible systematic error of mistaking standard deviation for uncertainty is eliminated. the uncertainty of ±.0085 was applied to each of the data points on the graph from figure 1, as .0085 was the largest uncertainty value that could account for all other smaller uncertainties as well. random error may have occurred when rounding numbers throughout the experiment. this is especially so as the mass of all 6 bobbers was measured, and the weight of each bobber was assumed to equate to .00498kg. although the air rail helped reduce friction to a number close to zero, there is a possibility for slight systematic error and the appearance of friction. the data collected from both group 5 and group 6 of physics 1 lab section 004 support the hypothesis. the acceleration of both groups’ systems increased as the hanging weight increased. the theoretical model for acceleration system by a single force is , which is derived from newton’s second law, $f=ma$. for more than one force, then theoretical model is , which is derived from ∑$f=ma$. this is supported by the experiment as the increasing hanging mass increased the acceleration as well. if a heavy string was used to connect the hanging weights to the cart, the total mass of the system would increase, making all the values for acceleration decrease, but would not affect the positive correlation between the acceleration of a system (m/) and applied force (n).


