conclusion:
	The physics labs 1, 2, and 3 were completed on August 28th, September 4th, and September 11th, respectively. For all experiments, the dependent variable was the period of the pendulum swing in seconds. 
In experiment 1, 5 trials were done with each of the following as independent variables, with the other variables being control variables when not being the manipulated independent variable is  angle of pendulum release in degrees, length of pendulum string in centimeters, and mass attached to the pendulum in grams. While length was the independent variable, the control variables angle of release, and mass attached to string were 20 degrees and 70 grams respectively. While mass was the independent variable being tested, the control variables length of string and angle of release were kept at 20 centimeters and 20 degrees respectively. While the angle of release was being tested as the independent variable, the control variables mass attached to string and length of string were kept at 70 grams and 20 centimeters.
The predictions were that the period would increase as the angle of release increased, the period would increase as the length of the string increased, and the period would increase as the mass attached to the pendulum increased. So, the hypotheses were that the angle of release, the length of the string, and the mass attached to the pendulum would influence the period of the pendulum. However, only one of the predictions held true. As the length of the string increased, so did the period of the pendulum swing. As shown by the charts, the only independent variable that influenced the period of the pendulum swing was the length of the string. 
In experiment 2, each variable was again tested. As control variables, length of string, angle of release, and mass attached to string were kept at 19.38 centimeters, 20 degrees, and 50 grams. As shown by the graphs, with a string length of 19.38 cm, the period of the pendulum swing was 1.07 seconds, and with a string length of 60 cm, the period of the pendulum swing was 1.7 seconds. And in each trial between, the time period gradually increases as the length increases.

In experiment 3, a Pasco device was used to more accurately record data for the period of the pendulum swing with respect to length. After using the Pasco device, it could be noticed that the times recorded in the first two experiments were a bit over the actual value. This means that the person using the stopwatch was late to stop the timer. This is an example of a systematic, or one-sided error. It is a one-sided error because it caused all values to be greater than the actual values.

With the mass as the independent variable, all the error bars overlap. This shows that the mass could not possibly influence the period of the pendulum swing. So, no claim could be made from the experiments regarding the mass attached the pendulum.
With the angle as the independent variable, all the error bars overlap again. This shows that there is no relationship between the angle of release and the period of the pendulum. So, no claim could be made from the experiments regarding the pendulum’s angle of release.
In conclusion, these experiments showed which factors influence the period of a pendulum swing. The period of a pendulum can be represented by the equation     $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$          The values recorded in the third experiment are not exactly the same as the equation. So, some random errors must have caused these values to be off.  As shown by the equation, and the data recorded, the exact length attached to the pendulum is the only testable variable which influences the period of a pendulum swing. 