conclusion:
Our group conducted these experiments to answer the question: How does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes? For lab 5, done on September 28th, the purpose of our lab was to design and conduct an experiment to determine a mathematical model from experimental data. For lab 6, conducted on October 5th, we would apply the mathematical model to predict the outcome of our experiment. Our dependent variable during these experiments were the acceleration of the system, and our independent variable was the amount of applied force. Other variables included the control variables which were the mass of the system (cart and bobbers) and the length of the string. The testable hypothesis was that the amount of applied force affects the acceleration of the system. These can be seen in table 1 below.

During lab 5 our group used a cart that was provided as well as bobbers to make up the system. We then ran the cart along an air track to find the velocity and acceleration given to us through DataStudio. Data table 2 below shows the numerical outcomes of our six trials during lab 5. Next we graphed our data to show that there is a linear mathmatical relationship between the applied force and the acceleration. (graph1) The relationship is $y=4.9869 - 6 x$ This relationship makes sense because the mass of the system stays the same, but the acceleration increases so the applied force must increase just as the acceleration increases. Compared to the theoretical model, which is $a=\frac{f}{m}$, the model that we found was .0053 or 5-2, which is larger than 5-6 that we got in the equation. The mass of the system shows up in the slope of the equation.
1/188.3 is .00531

 When comparing our experimental model to the theoretical model we found that the force from the air itself needs to be considered. The y intercept is caused by this force that is acting upon the system. We also noted some possible systematic errors could impact our results, such as the error of the scale used to measure, and the precision of the recording device used to determine acceleration.

During lab 6 we compared our findings to other groups to see where our experimental models were different and similar. Whiteboard 1 is our groups findings and whiteboard 2 and 3 are the other groups findings. When comparing the other groups results to ours we found that the results were the same but the equations were different. The groups also saw that as the force increases, acceleration also increases.
When comparing our experimental model to the theoretical model we found that the force from the air itself needs to be considered. The y intercept is caused by this force that is acting upon the system. We also noted some possible systematic errors that could impact our results, such as the error of the scale used to measure, and the precision of the recording device used to determine acceleration. Other errors could come from the misplacement of the bobbers, human error and friction on the system. We also concluded that a non-massless string, connecting the hanging mass to the cart, will not affect the acceleration of the cart. The cart would still undergo a uniform acceleration because the mass of the string would be constant in all trials, therefore not affecting it.
For labs 5 and 6 we wanted to find the answer to is  How does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes? We first developed a mathematical model to predict the acceleration of an object due to an applied force. Then we applied the model and compared our conclusions with other groups. Our conclusion is that as the force increases, acceleration also increases. Graph 1 helps support that statement.
