discussion and conclusion 

in this experiment, the main research question addressed was what variables can impact the period of the pendulum. based on the results acquired during the experiment, it is clear that the mass of the pendulum and the angle of release do not affect the period of the pendulum. however, the length of the pendulum does affect the period of the pendulum. 

figure 2 depicts what happens when the angle of release is altered and how the period of the pendulum is affected. clearly from the graphical representations, the period of the pendulum is not affected by the angle of release because of the constant slope of 0.026 which is very close to 0. when looking at figure 2, no error bars are visible. this is because the margin of error was too small to be visible on the graph. 

figure 3 depicts what happens when the mass of the pendulum is changed and how the period of the pendulum is affected. based on the graphical representations, the period of the pendulum is not affected by the mass of the pendulum because of the slope is so small, 2e-05x. such a small slope indicates that the two variables have no correlation on one another. similar to figure 2, no error bars are visible in figure 3. this again is due to the miniscule margin of error that was too small to be shown on the graph. 

when looking at figure 1, it is extremely evident that the length of the pendulum impacts the period of the pendulum. there is an obvious power curve, a slope of 0.1944, and an r2 value of exactly 1, therefore it can be confidently stated that as the length of the pendulum increases, so does the period. similarly to the earlier figures, the error bars are not visible due to the precision and small margin of error in this experiment.

from this evident correlation, the theoretical equation could be acquired. $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. where l is equal to the length of the pendulum and g is equal to gravity. based on the data results, the mathematical model for the period of the pendulum proves the theoretical equation by showing that period is positively and directly proportional to length of the pendulum. 

as learned in previous labs, preforming an experiment with patience, accuracy, and precision is the key for quality results. while an experimenter can fulfill all of these recommended requirements, there will always be some form of systematic error and random error. systematic error can be understood as errors in the observations/trials that usually are due to faulty measuring instruments, such as the measuring tape that measured the length of the pendulum. this kind of error could potential skew all the data in a certain direction. to reduce this error, a new, metal measuring tape was acquired and used to capture the exact measurement of the pendulum length to nearest millimeter. random error is when an error is caused by different factors that could vary in between each trial. an example of this could be inconsistent angles of release. for example, 15.2 degrees and 15.9 degrees would be unnoticeable to the experimenter. to reduce this error, it was crucial to make sure the angle was always the kept constant when need be. 

some of these errors were due to the various constraints within the experiment. for example, an accurate measure of the angle of release was solely dependent on the naked human eye. angles that were slightly too large or too small could have caused the period of the pendulum to be slightly shorter or longer. 

overall, the experiment was a success. after acquiring the data, it can be seen that the angle of release and the mass of the pendulum have no affect on the period, and that the length of the pendulum has a positive and direct correlation to the period.