discussion and conclusion

	throughout the experimental process of this lab, the relationship between the period of a pendulum and the factors that effect it were determined. the tested variables were the length of the pendulum, the angle of release, and the mass of the pendulum.  by completing trials and collecting data in lab 1, it was determined that there could possibly be a linear relationship between the length and the period of a pendulum swing, but no correlation between the angle or mass of a pendulum and its period.  the length of the pendulum had data that covered a more significant range then the angle of release and mass which helped to reach this conclusion.  the accuracy of this was extensively tested in the second lab as it addressed the standard deviation of the data along with systematic and random errors. 

in lab 2, ten trials were completed with the same length, angle, and mass in order to calculate a standard deviation for the data.  to reduce as much random error as possible, the same people were tasked with releasing the pendulum, timing, and measuring the angle for each trial.  random error was also reduced by having two people keep time, so that the times could be averaged. after collecting the data for ten trials and calculating the standard deviation for those trials, error bars were added to all three of the graphs from lab 1 using the standard deviation 0.018122, which was calculated from the data in table 8.  after adding the error bars, it became clear which of the graphs held a consistent trend and which ones did not.  the error bars helped to further conclude that there is no consistent trend in figure 2. graph of period vs angle or figure 3. graph of period versus mass.  this could be concluded because the error bars overlap by a significant amount especially noting that 2± was used, so the error bars displayed on the graph should be twice the size of what is pictured.  there was minimal overlap of error bars in figure 1. period vs length which supported a relationship between the two variables. in lab 3 trials were run again to determine a more accurate mathematical model of the relationship between the length of a pendulum and the period of its swings.  

during lab 3, a photogate was used to collect the data of the period and helped to reduce random error.  the prior labs had already concluded that there is no relationship between small release angles and period or the mass and period, so there was no need to take exact measurements for each length trial. the mass of the pendulum used was 50g and was listed under a control variable. the mass did not affect the data of the length experimental trials and is noted strictly for consistency. the data collected using the photogate shown in table 9 and graphed in figure 4. graph of photogate data for period versus length, was more accurate and precise because of the use of the photogate. the photogate had less uncertainty than the stopwatch and was overall a more consistent measuring technique.  figure 4. graph of photogate data for period vs length has a uniform curve that connects all data points with an exponential or power equation. the experimental mathematical model found from the data in lab 3 was found to be . this equation is in centimeters instead of meters, which explains the difference from the theoretical mathematical model which is . in this model g is 9.8  and the variable ‘l’ is measured in meters.  if the experimental mathematical model is adjusted to be in meters instead of centimeters the result is  using the same data points from lab 3.  the model expressed in meters instead of centimeters more closely fits the actual mathematical model.  

although the mathematical models are close representations of each other, they are not exact matches.  this discrepancy is due to random and systematic errors that may have occurred during the lab.  lab 1 had multiple random errors that were reduced for the trials run in lab 3.  during lab 1, different people measured the length of the pendulum which could have created various errors in the length measurements because each person measures differently than the next. the use of a stop watch was used for all of the experiments and trials as well, adding to more random error to the results of the experiment. the timing and the measure of a period was also arbitrary because it was based on what a person saw or when the pendulum seemed to complete a period instead of an exact reference point.  a note of each random error was made in lab 2 and reduced or corrected in lab 3. lab 3 implemented the photogate to eliminate the random errors associated with the measurement of the period and to keep more accurate and precise time of the period.  the use of the photogate could have introduced a systematic error, meaning that the data the photogate software reported could be skewed more positively or negatively than it really was.  this, however, is not the most probable root of error.  the random error associated with the procedure completed in lab 3 stems from a person measuring the length of the pendulum with a tape measure.  the same person measured the length of the pendulum each time, but that is not to say that there was no human error in measuring the length.  the tape measure could have been stretched or inaccurately marked, but again this is not the most probable root of error within these three experiments. even with the errors, the results of the experiment are a close match to the theoretical mathematical model. 

the experimental trials to determine what affects the period of a pendulum revealed that only the length of the pendulum will affect the period.  previously, it was determined that mass and the angle of release did not impact the period of the pendulum swing, but there is an additional consideration.  the angle of release will not affect the period of the pendulum swing for small angles.  the angles tested in lab 1 were all below 15°, therefore there is no correlation between small angles of release and the period of a pendulum.  larger angles were not explored in the experiments therefore it cannot be concluded based on the results of these experiments whether there is a correlation between large angles of release and the period of a pendulum swing.  furthermore, these experiments were successful in determining whether mass, length, or small angles affect the period of a pendulum swing, with mass being the only variable with correlation to the period.