discussion (sources of error): 



based off of the data that is presented graphically above, we concluded that the only variable that affected the time it took the pendulum to complete one period was the length of the string. in the first graph (figure 1), we illustrated and plotted the relationship between the length of the string and the time of the period. after plotting the points, we calculated the standard deviation to be +(-) 0.06. we then took this number and added error bars to our graphs. with these error bars, we were visually able to confirm whether or not the variable illustrated truly affected the time it took to complete the pendulum. this was able to be done by drawing a horizontal line through the error bars. if the line only passed through one error bar, then our independent and dependent variables had a direct relationship, and we were able to support our hypothesis. if the line passed through multiple lines, we would not be able to tell for certain if the iv and dv were related because the measure of uncertainty overlapped. after determining that the length of the string had a direct relationship with the time it took to complete one period, we decided to see if we could reduce the amount of error within the experiment. we gathered our thoughts and determined some random errors that affected our experiment could have been human error such as a lag in the stopwatch and the placement of the protractor. a few systematic errors could have been friction from the string or readings from the protractor. our team decided in order to reduce the error in the stopwatch and get an accurate reading of when the pendulum completes one period, we would need a pendulum apparatus model. we set up the experiment by having the mass and angle of release-controlled variables and the length of string the independent variable. we ran the experiment through four trails while recording our data using the pendulum apparatus. the data we gathered is graphed in figure 4. after reviewing the graph, we determined it to be nonlinear. we fit our graph with a “power curve” and were able to obtain a mathematical model for the graph. we compared our equation to the theoretical model and found that they are closely related. we calculated that our equation gave us a value of 1.58 seconds for a string length of 50cm, and the theoretical value gave us a value of 1.42 seconds. 







conclusion is 



the objectives of this lab experiment were to identify between independent variables, dependent variables, and control variables, to distinguish between a research question, a hypothesis, and a predication. we used all of these things to put together an experiment to determine what impacts the period of a pendulum for a small swing. through data collection and graphs, we were then able to determine the ranges of uncertainty and decide whether they were due to systematic error or random error. after determining the ranges of uncertainty, we were able to put error bars on our graph and were able to visualize whether or not we had accurate and precise measurements. one big error that effected our measurements was the timer and the way we started and stopped the intervals. we came up with a solution to this by using a pendulum apparatus model. after including the tool within our experiment, we did four new trials and repeated the experiment from week one using the same control variables. by graphing our results, we confirmed that our data supports our hypothesis and that the length of the string does in fact effect the time it takes the pendulum to complete one interval.