discussion and conclusion



the research question investigated with this series of experiments is to determine the variables that affect the period of a pendulum. to do this, we investigated the effects of string length, pendulum mass, and angle of release on the period of a pendulum. we used a simple pendulum consisting of a weight tied to a string, with the other end of the string attached to a support rod. 

in order to determine the effects of string length on the period of a pendulum, we ran a series of trials in which we varied the string length (the independent variable) while keeping the mass of the pendulum and release angle (control variables) constant. we used a stopwatch to time the period of the pendulum (dependent variable). based on the data in graph 1, the period of the pendulum increases as the string length increases. the error bars do not overlap; we can therefore conclude that the period of a pendulum increases when the string length is increased, according to our experimental data.

in order to determine the effects of release angle on the period of a pendulum, we ran a series of trials in which we varied the angle at which the pendulum was released (independent variable) was varied. the length of string and mass of the pendulum (control variables) were kept constant while a stopwatch was used to time the period of the pendulum (dependent variable). based on the data in graph 2, the period of the pendulum increases as the angle of release is increased. the error bars shown do not overlap; we can therefore conclude that according to our data, the period of a pendulum increases as the angle of release is increased.

in order to determine the effects of mass on the period of a pendulum, we ran a series of trials in which the mass of the pendulum (independent variable) was varied. the length and release angle (control variables) were kept constant in these trials; a stopwatch was used to record the period (dependent variable). based on graph 3, no clear association between pendulum mass and period was observed. the error bars overlap and a straight line can be drawn through the error bars. while we cannot say for sure that the mass of the pendulum does not affect the period of the pendulum, it seems reasonable that the mass did not affect the period of the pendulum as the error bars overlap. 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is  where t is the period of the pendulum in seconds, l is the length of the pendulum in meters, and g is the acceleration due to gravity. our results agree with the theoretical model in that we found that the period of the pendulum is affected by length and not affected by mass. however, we found that angle of release affected the period of the pendulum when according to the mathematical model, angle is not a factor. when a power curve was fitted to the data in graph 1 using the excel trendline function, it produced the equation $y=0.145 x^{0.5327}$. this was fairly consistent with the mathematical model; if the period is proportional to the square root of the length of the pendulum, the exponent on x should be 0.5. this is fairly close to the value of 0.5327 obtained with the excel trendline function.

some random errors associated with this experiment include error in timing the period using the stopwatch, error in measuring the string length using the measuring tape, and error in measuring the precise angle of release using a protractor. these random errors could be reduced by averaging repeated measurements or using a more precise method of timing the period. some systematic errors that may have affected this experiment include stretch in the measuring tape after years of use or the weights having lost mass to wear. this could be addressed by comparing the markings on the measuring tape with markings on a new measuring tape or by using an electronic balance to determine the precise mass of the weights.

some constraints with this experiment include the fact that it was done using only five trials for each variable tested. the fact that a limited number of trials were run could be a possible constraint; this could limit the ability to construct a useful mathematical model for the data. another possible constraint is that due to the physical dimensions of the lab, we could not test the pendulum at very large angles for long pendulum lengths.


