conclusion:
“How does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes?” was being asked and tested. A hypothesis stating that the amount of applied force acting on a system will affect the system’s acceleration was made and thus the dependent and independent variables identified. The acceleration of the system was labeled the dependent variable, while the force applied on the system was determined to be the independent variable. The control variables included keeping the total mass of the system the same and starting the system’s movement from the same spot for every trial. 
A graph was made to predict the relationship between the independent and dependent variable and can be found below underneath the experimental design template. Then the data was collected in a table which can be found below under data. Our prediction of a linear relationship between the force applied and acceleration of a system proved to be true after graphing the data (shown in Fig.1 below). The graph shows that as the amount of force applied on the system increases, the acceleration of the system also increases. The experimental mathematical model is shown on the Fig. 1 graph and can be compared to the theoretical model is  $F=Ma$. Both models can algebraically prove that as the force acting on the system (F) is increased, the acceleration of the system (a) increases with it.
	The small amount of error that occurred during the experiment was due to air resistance that occurred while the system was traveling along the track. This error was not included in the theoretical mathematical model, causing it to differ from the experimental model slightly. Other lab groups in class experienced the same air resistance and still found a linear relationship between force applied and acceleration. A possible systematic error could have occurred if the scale was found to be improperly measuring the weight of the bobs or the system. Another systematic error was our decision to consider the string in the system as insignificant mass. If we did consider its mass, it would simply add to the total mass of the system and not affect the results at all. 
    To put our results to the test, an experiment needed to be performed. In this experiment, the acceleration of the system was given, and the mass added to the end of the string needed to be found to cause the system to accelerate at the given value. Determining the mass needed at the end of the string would give the amount of force applied on the system, which we know directly correlates to the acceleration of the system. All experiment information, calculations, and data are listed under Challenge Activity.

Given acceleration is  0.42 m/
Finding what mass needs to be added to the end of the string to make the force applied on the system large enough to cause the acceleration of the system be the one given above is 
a is-0.0699 
The .0699 was retrieved from the mathematical model found in lab 05 Fig.1.
Total mass of the system is  331.8 g

Calculated mass at the end of the string (m) is  16.58 g
When performing the experiment, using the calculated mass at the end of the string to get the correct amount of applied force, the accelerations were is  .39 and .46 m/
The error that occurred when performing the experiment came from using the y value from lab 05 which had a different cart.
