Discussion/Conclusion:
Throughout this experiment, the goal was to find how the acceleration will change base on the applied force. Looking at figure 2, the graph shows a positive correlation between hanging force and acceleration. This means, as the hanging force increases, the acceleration must increase. In this experiment, the independent variable (hanging force) was found by multiplying the mass of the bobbers hanging by the slope of that trial. The dependent variable was the slope of the data which represents the acceleration. Error bars were added to figure 2 because there is uncertainty in each direction because both are measurements made.
According to Group 1, their findings support my group’s results and conclusions. Looking at their data in Figure 3, as their acceleration increased, their number of bobbers hanging increased as well. 
According to Group 6, their findings did not fully support my group’s results and conclusions as well. Looking at their data in Figure 4, they measured the hanging mass each time. Their results show as the mass increased, so did their acceleration. Those should have opposite correlations.
The correct theoretical equation is $f=m a$. The experimental mathematical model is $y= 0.0052 x-0.0697$. This experimental model supports the theoretical because it is similar to the theoretical. The next model, acceleration, is set to equal $a= \frac{f}{m_{sys}}$. This mathematical model shows that if the mass of the system would increase, the force would have to increase, which supports the theoretical model. If a heavy string was used connecting the hanging weight with the cart, one would have to take that into an account when calculating the acceleration. The heavier string would increase the hanging mass, which would decrease the acceleration.
Some random errors within the experiment are uncertainty of scale and uncertainty of computer software measurements (Datastudio). The way to reduce these errors is by taking multiple trials and runs of each data point. Some constraints within the experiment include friction and air resistance. We assumed for this experiment they were negligible, however, generally they would affect the outcomes because the theoretical equation does not take this into account.