discussion and conclusion
		the research question of this experiment asked what variables affect the period of a pendulum for small swings. three variables were used to answer this question. the first one was the angle at which the pendulum was released. the hypothesis was that the angle of release had an effect on the period of the pendulum. the prediction was that the smaller the angle of release, the shorter the period would be. based on the data is table 1, it is unlikely that the hypothesis holds true. when looking at graph 1, it is clear that the data points are not significantly different from each other, meaning that the angle of release really does not have an effect on the period of the pendulum for small swings.
		     the second variable used to answer the research question was the mass of the weight attached to the end of the pendulum. the hypothesis was that the mass of the weight had an effect on the period of the pendulum. the prediction was that the smaller the mass, the shorter the period would be. based on the data in table 2, it is unlikely that the hypothesis for this experiment is correct. graph 2 shows the time against varying weights, and none of the values are significant from each other when the error is calculated in. this means that the mass on the end of the pendulum affects the period for small swings.

		     the third variable used to answer the research question was the length of the string that was used as a pendulum. the hypothesis was that the length of the string would have an effect on the period of the pendulum. the prediction was that the longer the string became, the longer the period would be. the data in table 3 bolsters this prediction because it shows a clear increase in time when the length of the string is increased. moreover, graph 3 shows that even when error is calculated into each point value, the data points are still significantly different from each other. this suggests that the length of the string does affect the period of a pendulum for small swings. 

		     the theoretical mathematical model for the experiment of the length of the string versus the period of the swing is is 

		     the data struggles to fit this model. for instance, the model suggests that for a string length of 40 cm (0.4 m), the period would be 1.26 seconds. however, the experimental data has the vale of 1.72 seconds. along the same line, the theoretical model suggests that for a string length of 100 cm (1 m), the period would be 2.00 seconds, but the experimental data shows that it took 2.45 seconds to complete a period. because of this inconsistency, the experimental mathematical model that was developed is is 
		     the experimental model suggests that the data points follow a curve that looks similar to a $y=\log{\left(x \right)}$ function. graph 3.1 shows the result when this curve is placed over the data points.
		     the factors that were shown to not have an affect also failed to match up to the theoretical mathematical model. this is because the length of the string was the same for them (30 cm), which means all of the data collected should have had the same period (1.09 seconds). several of the measurements were close to this value, but the inconsistencies of the data, as well as their standard deviations, meant that the points were not significantly following the model.
		     the random errors present included inconsistencies in taking the time, not keeping enough tension on the string for the pendulum to swing in a straight line, multiple people releasing the string, and not keeping the string straight on the measuring tape to assure the correct measurement of the length of the string. in order to reduce these errors, multiple tests were done for each trial and their values were averaged. specifically, for the timing errors, at one point in the lab, photogates were used to measure the period, as they have much lower error rates (±0.001). the results are shown below in table 3.1 and graph 3.2.
	
		     the systematic errors present included time differences in the timers and possible measurement errors due to the age of the measuring tape. the timer error was accounted for by finding the standard deviation and adding it to each graph, since there was not a way to find out just how much each timer was off from each other. the measuring tape was cross referenced with the ruler edge of the protractor to make sure that there was no stretching due to use or age.
		     there are a couple of constraints that may limit the reliability of these results. one is that human error was a part of the experiment when releasing the pendulum or stopping the timers. the reaction time could have been too slow to accurately gather the data. this is why multiple tests were done for each individual trial. the other constraint was that the experiments were not done in a procedure that took the time to ensure that every constant was truly constant. because the lab was done in a time-constrained manner, the results may not be as accurate as they could be.

