discussion and conclusion

in this paper, we are investigating the relationship between the pendulum mass (g), angle of release (⁰) and string length (cm) and the period of the pendulum (s). for string length vs. period, the error bars appear to increase in magnitude with each new measurement, with the horizontal error bars increasing more than the vertical ones, but they nevertheless do not appear to overlap. for release angle vs. period, all the error bars in each of the measurements have the same magnitude and overlap considerably. for pendulum mass, since the period has remained relatively constant in all trials seen in table 1, and therefore seemed to indicate no relationship with the pendulum period, no graph was produced. in all experiments excepting mass, the independent values have a linear positive relationship with the period of the pendulum, given their high r2 values (figure 1, figure 2).

concerning release angle vs. period, it could be plausibly claimed that release angle has a positive effect on the period of a pendulum. however, the same cannot be true for release angle vs. period.

the following mathematical model is likely consistent with the results shown in figure 1, but not figure 2 (investigation).
where t is time for one period (s), l is string length (m), and g is the acceleration of gravity, 9.8 m/s2 (investigation).
let us take 70 cm in string length from table 1 and plug it into this model, in addition to the control value of pendulum mass (50 g). will the theoretical value match the actual value closely?
with a difference of 1.768 s – 1.679 $s=0.088$ s, it clearly fits the pattern, even when the model is non-linear as opposed to what the r2-values might suggest!

possible sources of random error for these experiments may include jittering handling of the protractor when measuring the angle of release for the pendulum. further, when measuring string length, as length increased, the harder it became to handle the measuring tape. this could also be considered a systematic error. another possible source of systematic error is the incorrect usage of the protractor when setting up release angles, which, upon catching, i helped my partners correct by showing them how to properly use the protractor to set up swings.

to correct the random error concerning protractor handling, perhaps a hinge set perpendicularly to the pendulum arm where the protractor could be set, so more accurate measurements could be produced. to correct the one concerning measuring tape, perhaps a long ruler could be used instead of a measuring tape, as its rigidity would make measurements more precise as opposed to the flexibility of a measuring tape. for the systematic error concerning incorrect protractor usage, knowledge on how to correctly use the protractor for setting up swing angles should be possessed from the start of the experiment, though my solution for the random error for unstable protractor handling would also likely solve this.

one source of error, the measuring tape, may also be a constraint that may affect these results’ generalizability, which again would be solved by a more rigid measuring tool. moreover, another constraint that may occur would be the occasional tendency for the pendulum to strike the posts of the photogate measuring its period, though this could be solved by just swinging the pendulum again.
