conclusion/discussion

based on the data and results, they both produced an acceleration within 0.1 m/s^2 of our goal of 0.5 m/s^2. once again, it could answer the research question of how the acceleration of the system would be affected by the force applied. 

the experiment overall gave insight on the effects an applied force has on the acceleration of a system. our group was able to successfully complete the experiment over two weeks of time of creating an experimental design, testing the research question, creating data and graphs, analyzing the data, as well completing the challenges. once again, the research question that we sought out to answer was “how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes?” in the first part of the experiment we tested acceleration by having it as the dependent variable, the independent variable as force, and the control variable as the mass of the system. our testable hypothesis was “a change in the applied force of a system will result in a change in the acceleration of the system.” our prediction was “as the applied force of a system increases, the overall acceleration of a system will increase.” through testing of eight trials, our data displayed in an increase on acceleration when the force was increased. we confirmed this data by creating a graph. the graph showed a linear relationship between the two variables. the mathematical relationship between acceleration and applied force can be defined by the equation $a=5.1366 f - 0.0022$. this indicates that acceleration has a positive relationship to applied force. the vertical error bar is too small to be seen, but uncertainty was set at +/- 0.001 m/s^2. using newton’s laws of motion, applied force is equal to the mass of the system multiplied by the acceleration. solving for acceleration this is equal to the inverse of mass times the force applied. $a = m1  f$. the mass of the system in this experiment was 0.189 kg. 1/m is 5.29. this value is incredibly close to the slope of our mathematical model, 5.1366 and shows our mathematical model is a good representation of the theoretical model. the y intercept of -0.0022 is very close to zero and again resembles the theoretical model. the work is displayed in figure 3. based on the data it can answer our research question by showing that force has an effect on acceleration. the increase on force creates an increase on acceleration. we were able to accomplish the goal of creating a mathematical model and then evaluating it to the theoretical model confirming our results. in the second part of the lab we used the same model as part i. the mathematical model derived from lab 05 was used to determine what force is needed to make the acceleration of the system 0.5​m/s2​ ​. we used the force of 0.16835 to obtain the target acceleration value of 0.5 m/s^2. our two trials gave the acceleration of 0.495 and 0.492. this was within our uncertainty ranges. based on other participants in the experiment showed quite similar results because they were testing the same research question and had similar hypothesis, predictions, errors and data. although, errors may have occurred that did not give us the exact value. one force that was not accounted for would be the friction between the string and the wheel. another could be friction between the air track and the car if the air track is not a truly frictionless system. air resistance is another force that could affect the experimental model when compared to the theoretical model. the mass of the system is represented by the mass of the car in addition to the mass of all of the bobbers used in the experiment. the mass of the string is not accounted for in this experiment. possible systematic errors that may impact our results occur in both the measurement of the mass, and the velocity. if the balance was improperly reading too high or too low, this would introduce systematic error as our system mass would have been and pulling force would have been recorded consistently too high or too low. another source of systematic error could be the readings from the wheel on the error track. this measuring system could be improperly calibrated and therefore read too high or too low. if the string had an appreciable mass, the cart would still undergo uniform acceleration because the mass of the string is the same throughout the experiment and thus, does not impact the relationship between applied force and acceleration. overall, the experiment was successful by providing accurate data to answer the research question and backing up the hypothesis and prediction. it provided the answer that the increase of an applied force on a system increases the acceleration of said system. future experiments can be done with a much larger system, more advanced equipment to produce less error and provide more accurate data. 