discussion and conclusion:

	how does the change in applied force affect the acceleration of a system? this question was answered by the testing of the independent variable, applied force. the results show that the prediction of a direct, positive, linear relationship was partially correct. looking at figure 1, using the error bars along with the equivalency criterion, each of the points are most likely not equivalent to one another. this shows that there was very little error in the data points. this and the fact that both the applied force and acceleration are moving in the positive direction, this shows that there is a direct and positive relationship between the variables. the reason the prediction is only partially correct is because even though at first glance it may seem as if the data is linear, it is not. although a linear trendline fits the data well, a higher r² value is seen from a power trendline. this is due to the slight curve of the last few data points in figure 1.

	group 2 in lab 1051-019 also had data that showed a power relationship (see figure 2). this shows that they also had data points that showed a curved trend as the applied force got higher. on the other hand, group 2 in lab 1051-017 showed data that had a linear trendline. this means that their acceleration continued to grow at a consistent rate alongside the applied force. this group’s results stayed consistent with the original prediction. so why is there a discrepancy between groups showing a power trend and a linear trend? a linear trend fits all 3 groups’ data well, but a power trend fits some even better. one possible explanation for this would be the way in which each group carried their experiments. slight variations in technique may cause a change in the way that the acceleration is read. an example of this is how some groups may have turned the air on and let their cart go immediately, whereas others may have held their cart still, let the air run, then released the cart. if the specific techniques are investigated more thoroughly, that may lead to further explanation of why some groups agreed, and others did not. also, it would be interesting to see if the applied force could be taken higher, what the curve/line would continue to be.

	the theoretical model $f= m_{sys} a$ was used during the experiment. this model proved useful in determining the acceleration, and is consistent with the data, because if f is being divided by m(sys)-which is constant, then as f gets bigger, the “a” must be getting bigger as a result. this compliments the experimental mathematical model ($a=c1 w+c2$), because they are practically the same except the experimental mathematical model has the variable “c2”. this “c2” accounts for any outside forces that may be interacting with the cart (the mass of the system is still accounted for in the c1*w part of the equation). the outside forces become accounted for in the enhanced theoretical equation which is is  $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$. this way, they can be accounted for in the prediction before the experiment is run. these outside forces can include anything such as air resistance, friction, or any other thing that may affect the acceleration. one force that would cause the acceleration not to be constant is if the string was not virtually massless. as the string were pulled down the perpendicular side, the mass pulling the cart would be increasing as the cart came closer to the pulley, meaning the acceleration would be increasing as well.

	there are both potential random and systematic errors associated with this experiment, although most of the errors in this experiment were most likely random. this is because much of the experiment was put together/done by hand. the only real systematic errors could be if the data studio system was reading consistently too high or low. the main random error that could have occurred is that when the air track was turned on, the cart may have been released before the air was fully flowing, making the acceleration slower than it would have been at full airflow. this error could be reduced by having the person wait a set amount of time (example 3 seconds) after the air was turned on, before releasing the cart. another solution would be to have a piece of machinery that automatically releases the cart when air flow hits the maximum amount. a final way to reduce all random errors in general is to run a higher number of trials. in this experiment, only 3 trials were run for each mass, but if more were run, the average data most likely would have been more accurate since outliers would be accounted for.

	the main constraints in this experiment relate to the random errors that could have occurred. as stated in the discussion of how different groups got different trendlines, different groups could have different techniques. if there was a machine that could perform the experiment in a more consistent fashion, the results would be more accurate. another constraint is time. if there was time to test more masses with more trials, then a more accurate trendline could be found. in the future, if more trials were able to be run, with the more consistent techniques, the data would be more accurate and more able to be generalized.
