discussion and conclusion

	the research question for this lab was to see how the acceleration of a system changed when the applied force was changed. the experiment went well, and we were able to graph all our data points. first, we drafted an experimental design seen if table 1. then, we graphed the data in table 2, onto a graph in table 3. our data ended up showing that our hypothesis and prediction were correct. the more force applied by hanging mass caused the system to accelerate quicker. this can also be seen with the other experiments run by groups 4 and 6. in picture 2 the data is close to ours, and the graphs are also very similar. however, in picture 3, you can see that group 6 messes up their numbers. while everything is alright with their trends and graphing, their numbers are scaled too high. this makes the experiment impossible to do over because their weights are too much for the air track that we used in this experiment. both groups data backs up our data and helps show why the experiment is important. from these experiments we can see how the theoretical model compares to our experimental one. first, another force other than the hanging weight that is present is air resistance, which can affect the final experimental model. the mass of the system in this model shows up in the x in the equation. because the string comes into play when talking about weight we are asked to describe what would change if the string had mass to it and how it would affect the system. we concluded that it would not change the systems acceleration because the string goes over the edge of the table at the same rate it did before it had mass. other than the string, the only other errors we could think of would be the scale that we used for weighing, the air track not being completely frictionless, and the air track not being completely leveled. there is also always human error involved which we cannot control. overall, the experiment went well, and we were able to determine our formulas and compare our experiments to other groups. we were able to verify our hypothesis and prove that the acceleration increased with a bigger applied force.