conclusion:

	throughout the investigation we examined how applying force would affect the acceleration of a system. we found that there is a direct relationship. as force is added to the system, the acceleration increases. our mathematical model shows this; however, it is not perfect. in graph 1, our model of $y=5.2529 x - 0.009$ is displayed on the graph. the -.0096 shows that there are other forces acting on the cart and that it is not a perfect system without friction. the y-intercept proves this. the model is derivation of newton’s 2nd law $f=m a$. other groups also found our prediction to be true. in table 2, group dax found that the acceleration increased as they added force. their relationship is shown in graph 2. in table 3, group obo presented similar findings displayed in graph 3.  							none of our models were perfect though and this shows that there are other forces than the hanging weight. some other forces could be the friction between the pulley and string. air resistance slowing our cart down, or inconsistent mass of the bobs. this could affect our results by slowing down our acceleration more than anticipated. if each bob has a different mass, then acceleration could vary with each trial and not rise consistently. all these factors could account for the .0096n resistance in our model. the mass of our system appears in the slope of our model. it stayed the same each trial as we kept the system mass the same. we only changed the force which then affected the acceleration. if the string in our system was not massless, it could affect the gravitational force downward that we were relying on to accelerate our cart. if the string was heavy enough, it would add to the mass of the hanging mass as more if it is transferred from the horizontal to the vertical.							 errors were present in our experiment. some errors present could be systematic in our mass calculation of the bobbers if the scale is not 100% accurate. most of our errors would come from randomness in the sense that air resistance could be constantly changing in the room. also, our group assumed each bobber was the same which could create more errors. in the future, we could weigh each bobber. another error in our system could me our velocity measuring device. this would be a systematic error because it has a set error amount that doesn’t change. 												during our testing we learned how force can affect the acceleration of a system. we assumed there was only one force acting our system when there wasn’t as displayed by our model. forces we didn’t account for or couldn’t account for limit the generalizability of our results. some of the constraints placed on us like not being able to test a greater range of force, not as precise measuring equipment, and not being able to perfectly replicate an environment without other forces limited us and our results. we did learn that force does in fact affect the acceleration for a small system. 


