discussion and conclusion

the experiment was conducted in order to allow us to determine how the force affected the acceleration of the system. in order to get a model of how the force and acceleration are related, we can use newtons 2nd law of motion, which correlates bot force and acceleration with mass. in testing our hypothesis that the applied force with change the acceleration, we had to keep one of the factors, which was the mass, constant, which is why the mass of the system did not change throughout the trials. because the mass of the system remained constant and the gravity was constant, the hanging weight was our determination of force, causing this to be the independent variable. 

we are able to look at the graph and the data in the charts in order to determine that there is a linear relationship between the acceleration and the applied force. there were differences between the methods used in finding uncertainty between the groups. in order to find ours, we selected the highest of all of the uncertainties that were given in datastudio and applied it to all of the values. both of the other groups used the same method in using a different uncertainty for each value, which was given to them in datastudio. other than the uncertainty and specific values the overall data from the other groups supported the linear model and also showed a positive correlation between the force applied and the increase in acceleration. 

our experimental model, which was obtained from the data in table 2, which is $y=0.0533 x - 0.0156$ related to the theoretical model of $f=m a$. these are both linear equations which supports the prediction of a linear model. a force that may have been present, although was supposed to negligible was friction. this was represented by the y-intercept of the equation, which was -.0156. because the system was supposed to begin a 0, the friction caused some variation in that. a couple other explanations could be the mass of the string, which was supposed to be negligible and pushing forces that may have caused the cart to begin rolling at the release. all of these are present in the y- intercept value of the equation. a couple errors that may have affected the outcome of the experiment include the calibration of the datastudio system, a worn-out string (knot size) and scale error. 


