discussion and conclusion. 

in this experiment my lab partners and i tested whether the mass of a pendulums bob, its length or the angle of the pendulum could affect its period which is the time it took for the pendulum to go from its start point, swing, and return to the exact position again. in the experiment we tested each aspect of the pendulum individually to see which one impacted the period. we determined that only length of the pendulum affected the period while mass and angle had no real effect. as can be observed from figures 1 and 3 there is no trend in the data to indicate a correlation between any values and the error bars severely overlap indicating as well that there is no trend in the data and thus no difference in the pendulums period if the mass or angle of the pendulum are changed. when looking at figure 2 we see that there is a slight trend in the data indicating a correlation between pendulum length and pendulum period; however, one of the error bars slightly overlaps with that of another data point. the main cause of this was believed to be a result of random error possibly by not starting at the exact same position every measurement or stopping the timer when it wasn’t always returned to the same starting position. to solve these errors we used a photogate device which automatically calculated the period for us. the data obtained from this is located in figure 4. the photogate allowed us to measure the period exactly down to .001 seconds. as a result a more clear trend was observed and there was no overlap in errors to indicate there is not a trend. 

the theoretical mathematical equation for the period of a pendulum is . from the data in figure 4 we obtained almost the full mathematical equation, ours was $y=0.18062007 x$. the curve that best fits the data is      $y=\sqrt{x}$          and by using excel we obtained this equation which best fit the graph data. if we plug data into the theoretical equation such as 0.50m, which is equal to 19.65 inches, we get that the period of the pendulum should be 1.531 seconds. when compared to our data point at 20 inches we get 1.538 seconds. these results further indicate that we obtained the theoretical model due to the miniscule difference in the values.

	in this experiment there were many random errors as well as some systematic errors. the systematic errors were a result of the stop watch being off by .005 seconds and the photogate by .001 seconds. the only way to reduce these errors would be by using a more accurate photogate and stopwatch. other systematic error could be due to the string, which the bob of the pendulum was attached to, being stretched from the mass of the bob. this error could be reduced by using something that would have more tensile strength thus not stretching as much. random error in this experiment occurred from the pendulum no always being released at the exact same angle every trial, maybe off by a few degrees in any direction. one way this could be reduced in the future is by have some sort of device or mechanism which would hold and release the pendulum in the exact position every time. this could also solve the random error of the pendulum swinging in a slight oscillation and making the swing more linear. this error occurred when the pendulum was released by hand. the last random error observed was that the pendulum period wasn’t recorded at the exact same position every time. to solve this error photogate was used. it measured the time of the period every time it passed the exact same point during its swings.

	from this experiment we concluded that the only factor or aspect of a pendulum which could affect its period is its length. we confirmed this from our graphical data in figures 1, 2, 3 and 4. figure 2 and 4 showed a trend and fit the theoretical mathematical model of a pendulums period, especially figure 4, while figures 1 and 3 which measure mass and angle did not.  this experiment and its results can be easily reproduced in a lab setting as long as they have the same or similar equipment that we used.