discussion and conclusion

the research question that was being investigated in this lab is “what will affect the period of a pendulum for small swings.”

for the first experiment, the mass of the pendulum was tested by adding more weight to the pendulum to see if it would affect the period of small swings the pendulum makes. figure 1 shows the graph of mass versus period and when more mass is added to the pendulum, it caused the period to decrease, but once 130 grams was added to the pendulum the period began to increase. the momentum of the pendulum will result in a longer period of a swing after 130 grams of weight was added. the error bars in figure 1 overlapped, meaning that the data is not significantly significant so mass did not change the period. in the second experiment, the angle of release was tested by releasing the pendulum string at different angles by using a protractor. figure 2 is a graph of the angle of release versus period, showing that the higher the angle of release is, the period of the pendulum will increase and the pendulum will swing slower since it will take the pendulum longer to make a small swing with a larger angle of release. the error bars in figure 2 do overlap each other as well, which means that the data are not significantly significant so therefore angle did not affect period. the last variable that was tested was the length of the pendulum string. in figure 3 it shows that the longer the length of string there is, the longer it will take for the pendulum to complete a swing in this last test that was performed in lab. the error bars in figure 3 do not overlap each other at all, so this would mean that the length of the string plays a role in affecting the period of the pendulum and a second trial was performed again by measuring the period with a photogate rather than a stopwatch in figure 4.

the period of a pendulum is expressed as a theoretical model mathematically as         $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$          where t represents time, l represents length, and g represents gravity (russell). my graph in figure 4 for the second trial of testing the length of the pendulum supports the mathematical model. after performing a second trial with a photogate as our measuring tool, we were able to accurately measure the periods so that when generating the graph you cannot see the error bars, since it lies on the data point we had collected. the graph in figure 4 represents a power series with the equation      $y=0.2955 x^{0.4259}$       the graph in figure 4 is more curve fitting, showing that it correlates with the graph of the mathematical model. by looking at figure 1 the graph for mass is pretty linear where the period decreased by looking at table 1.1 until we got to 130 grams for the mass. the angle of release graph in figure 2 was also linear. the mass and angle of release did not affect the period because they are not even displayed in the equation of the mathematical model of      $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$       (russell). in this case it doesn’t matter what the mass or angle of release is since length plays a role in impacting the period of a pendulum.

during this experiment both random and systemic error played a part in affecting the data collected. random errors include is  starting the stopwatch early, starting the stopwatch late, or stopping the stopwatch late. to reduce the amount of random error we were able to use a photogate that measures the period of the pendulum precisely and also reduces the size of error bars shown above in figure 4. one systemic error in this experiment would be using a worn out string. however, in this experiment we did not use a new string. for future purposes it would be better to change the string because a worn out string could easily stretch and affect the period.

 there were a few constraints in this experiment such as not having enough space for the pendulum to swing. if we don’t have enough space, it would be difficult to measure the larger increments of measure if we have limited space. another constraint is tension in the rope because the magnitude can change when the pendulum is swinging and tension is a result of this.

