discussion

	the research question being tested throughout this lab was, what will impact the period of a pendulum for small swings. over the course of three weeks, there were three labs performed in order to find the answer to this question. in lab 01 our group tested three different variables to see which one would have the greatest effect on the period of the pendulum. those three variables were the length of the string, the mass of the pendulum, and the angle of release. looking at the data gathered from this lab, found in table 1a and figure 1, the graph showed a positive, linear relationship between the length of the string and the period. on this graph, we found the r-squared value to be 0.97, meaning that it is a very high correlation since the number is close to 1. in table 2a and figure 2, no correlation was found between the two variables. this was determined through looking at the very low r-squared value given through the graph. in table 3a and figure 3, no correlation was found in this data set, either. an angle of release was 5 degrees and each time the period lasted for about 1.89 seconds, no matter the angle it was dropped from.

	the second lab we performed involved a photogate, as well as a set of controls. after the trials were completed during this experiment, the graph showed to have an r-squared value of 0.0608. this value is very low-it should be close to 1. the equation on the graph is $y=1.26747 - 0.0085 x$

	the third lab performed was designed to determine the relationship between the length of the pendulum and the period. we also used the photogate in this experiment. looking at the data from table 5a and figure 5, there seems to be a positive correlation between the variables. in our data, there is an outlier shown. this effected the r-squared value, making it a bit lower than the theoretical value of the r-squared value. there was an uncertainty of 0.001 seconds in this part of the experiment. 

	there are two kinds of errors that could have resulted in our data being off during these labs-systematic or random error. systematic error in our experiments can be related to the accuracy of the photogate when measuring the periods. when using the photogate, it is very easy to have a certain level of uncertainty-which was 0.001 seconds in this instance. random error in this experiment could have been changing the measurement of the angle between each trial. in order to fix this issue, we would simply measuring the angle of release each time the pendulum is dropped.