discussion and conclusion:

	what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?  that is the research question that was investigated throughout this lab.  three experiments were conducted, each testing a different variable.  first, the impact of the length of a pendulum on the period of a pendulum was tested.  the length of the pendulum and the time it took to complete a full period swing is listed above in table 2. pendulum length vs. period time.  this data is plotted on graph 1. pendulum length vs. period time, which is posted above.  looking at this graph, we can see that it is upward sloping, indicating that there is a positive correlation between the length of the pendulum and the time of the period.  therefore, it can be concluded that the length of the pendulum does impact the time it takes to complete one full period swing.  it can also be concluded that the prediction was correct; as the length of the period increases, the time it takes to complete one full period also increases.

	the second variable that was tested was the impact of the mass of a pendulum on the period of a pendulum.  the mass of the pendulum and the time it took to complete a full period swing is listed above in table 4. pendulum mass vs. period time.  this data was plotted on graph 2. pendulum mass vs. period time, which can be seen above.  looking at this graph, we can see that it has a linear trend, and the slope is close to zero.  this indicates that there is not a correlation between the independent variable and dependent variable.  therefore, it can be concluded that the mass of a pendulum does not impact the time it takes to complete one full period swing.  it can also be concluded that the prediction was incorrect; as the mass of the pendulum increases, the time it takes to complete one full period remains constant.

	the third variable that was tested was the impact of the angle at which a pendulum was released on the period of a pendulum.  the angle at which the pendulum was released and the time it took to complete a full period swing is listed above in table 6. angle of release vs. period time.  this data was plotted on graph 3. angle of release vs. period time, which can be found above, as well.  looking at this graph, we can see that it has a linear trend, and the slope is close to zero.  this indicates that there is not a correlation between the independent variable and dependent variable.  therefore, it can be concluded that the angle at which the pendulum is released does not impact the time it takes to complete one full period swing.  it can also be concluded that the prediction was incorrect; as the angle of release increases, the time it takes the pendulum to complete one full period swing remains constant.

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$.  the only graph out of the three that fits this model is graph 1. pendulum length vs. period time, which shows the data for how the length of a pendulum impacts the period of a pendulum.  graph 2. pendulum mass vs. period time and graph 3. angle of release vs. period time, however, do not fit the theoretical model.  graph 1. pendulum length vs. period time fits the power curve.  the power curve is upward sloping and has a positive slope.  knowing this, a claim can be made that the length of a pendulum does in fact impact the time it takes the pendulum to complete a full period swing.

	a possible random error that may have been present during this experiment is a possible rounding error on the stopwatch(s) used to measure the time of the pendulum’s period swing.  this was attempted to be reduced by using multiple stop watches and averaging the measured time.  one possible systematic error that may have been present is stopping the stopwatch past the true time.  this error was attempted to be minimized or eliminated by having multiple people each use their own stop watches to time the period of the pendulum.  afterwards, the collected times were averaged together to minimize systematic error.  another possible systematic error that may have been present during this lab is incorrectly measuring the length of the string when testing to see if the length of the pendulum impacts the period of the pendulum.  to correct this error in the future, multiple people should double check the measured length of the string to make sure it is correct.  lastly, another systematic error that could have been present during the experiment is a miscalibration of the balance used to measure the mass of the pendulum.  to eliminate this error in the future, a balance that is known to be correctly calibrated should be used, or multiple balances should be used, with the mass from each balance being averaged together.

	constraints in this experiment may be the limited tools and resources available to use.  to elaborate, this pendulum experiment may have yielded different results if, for example, a tenser string could have been used.  also, if this pendulum experiment were conducted on a much larger scale, different results may have been present.  another constraint is the amount of time available to perform this experiment.  if more time would have been available, systematic errors could have been eliminated/reduced, and more trials could have been performed.  this would allow for a greater generalizability of the results.