discussion & conclusion

	this experiment was conducted to determine the impact that applied force has on the acceleration of a system. due to the equation, force equals mass times acceleration, it was hypothesized that there is a correlation between force and acceleration. to investigate this, the mass of the cart and the mass put on the cart were the control variables and the system. the independent variable was the hanging mass because that was used as the applied force, and it was increased with each trial to see how it would impact the acceleration of the system. when referring to figure 1, it can be seen that the hanging mass (applied force) and acceleration have a linear relationship with a mathematical model of $a=4.6144 f - 0.022$ in which “a” represents acceleration, and “f” represents force. the slope represents 1/mass and the y-intercept represents the force of friction. due to possibilities of errors made during the experiment and other forces such as friction acting on the equipment, there are error bars included with each measurement on the graph which represent the uncertainties. 
	besides my group, there were five other groups that conducted the same experiment during the same lab period. all of the groups had the same hypothesis and procedure, but the mathematical model obtained from the data for each group were different. the group that supported my group’s results and conclusions most closely was group 2. group 2 had a mathematical model of $a = 4.7453 f + 0.0775$ (physics 1051l-section 15, group 2) which was the closest one to my group’s. the slope of their graph which represents 1/m was the closest slope to the slope my group obtained from our data.
	all the groups obviously did not have the same results, and not all the results obtained by each group was close to the results found by my group. one group that supported my group’s results but was further off was group 1. group 1 obtained a mathematical model that was more than slightly off of the mathematical model that my group acquired. their mathematical model was $a = 0.3123 f + 0.2789$ (physics 1051l-section 15, group 1). the slope of their graph shows that the force did not have as much of an impact as it did in my group’s data. although the slope of their data was positive, the force only had a slight impact on the acceleration in their experiment which supports but also refutes our claim that there is a correlation between force and acceleration since there is not really a strong correlation. 
the theoretical equation of this experiment is $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$ while the experimental mathematical model is $a=4.6144 f - 0.022$. the experimental mathematical model supports the theoretical model because it follows the form of the theoretical equation. the slope of the experimental model which is 4.6144 represents 1/msys and when multiplied by force, you get f/msys. the y-intercept in this equation is neglected because it is not considered in the theoretical equation. the enhanced theoretical equation for the acceleration is $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$. the experimental model also supports the theoretical model. the enhanced theoretical model includes any external forces that could act on the system which is represented by the y-intercept, -0.0227, in the experimental model. the y-intercept in the experimental model represents friction acting on the system. 

if a heavy string was used to connect the hanging weight and the cart, the acceleration would increase, but the force of friction would also increase. even though the weight of the string would add to the weight pulling on the cart to increase the acceleration, the weight would cause more friction, so the uncertainties and errors would also increase.

possible systematic errors that could have affected the data are not taking the weight of the string into account and using an incorrectly zero-ed triple beam balance. if the weight of the string connecting the cart and hanging weight was not considered, the acceleration would seem higher since the string is also a weight pulling on the cart. if an incorrectly zero-ed triple beam balance was used to weigh the bobs used as hanging weight, the mathematical model would be incorrect because the mass of the bobs would either be too high or too low than the actual mass which would give us an incorrect applied force. possible random errors that could have affected the data are the motion sensor of data studio program, friction, and air resistance. the friction in this experiment was neglected, but it could have a slight effect on the data as you can see in the mathematical model. if friction is neglected, the acceleration of the system would be higher than it should be. air resistance was also neglected, but air resistance could act on the cart causing either an increase or decrease in acceleration.

constraints that we came across in this experiment were time and the number of bobs provided. we had two hours to conduct the experiment, so we could only do as many as we could fit in that time period. besides that, the number of bobs we were provided with restricted the amount of trials we could do. since some bobs were used on the cart, we were left with 8 bobs to use as hanging weight, so we were limited to 8 trials. despite the constraints, we were able to conduct the experiment with enough trials and get a reasonable mathematical model that was close to the theoretical mathematical model.