discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this lab was to design and conduct a controlled experiment and to derive a mathematical model from the experimental data. this was accomplished by examining the research question, how does the acceleration of a system change when the force applied is altered? 

to investigate this question a cart attached to a string was placed on an air track with the string going past the end of the track with a given amount of mass (number of bobs) hanging on the end of the string. the hanging mass behaved as the applied force of the system (independent variable). once the air track was turned on the force of gravity on the on the bobs caused the cart to move. the resulting velocity was then recorded by a photo gate timer and the acceleration (dependent variable) was extrapolated from the slope of the velocity vs time graph (see table 2. for data). the acceleration was then plotted against the force applied (hanging mass of bobs x velocity) to derive a relationship.

the resulting graph shown in figure 1. depicted a positive linear trend with the experimental model of a is 5.3065. this indicates a direct relationship, as the force applied increases so does the acceleration of the system. figure 1. also has error bars that account for several sources of error in the experiment (*note is  vertical error bars are too small to be seen on graph). the uncertainty associated with the acceleration is ±0.001 and the uncertainty associated with applied is ±0.0098. there is no overlap between the force applied or the acceleration components meaning the data holds significance. in conclusion, the findings support the initial hypothesis that acceleration is related to the force applied.

the positive linear relationship is supported by two other lab groups who carried out the same experiment, testing the same research question of whether the acceleration of a system is related to the applied force. both group 5 and group 6 hypothesized that applied force is related to the system’s acceleration. their data collected shown in figure 2. and figure 3. suggests that as applied force increases the resulting acceleration will increase in proportional linear trend agreeing with the same linear trend obtained from this experiment’s set of data and supporting the conclusion of a positive linear relationship between force applied and acceleration of a system. 

in comparison to the accepted theoretical model for the acceleration of a system by a single force, $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$, derived from newton’s second law, $f=m a$, the experimental model, a is 5.3065, is very close. the linear $y=m x+b$ equation creates the line of best fit for the data analyzed, all the points lied on it with none of them varying by a significant amount. the mass of the system can be found in the constant of the experimental eqaution, this is made cleared by rearranging the experimental equation to solve for force applied, $f=0.1904 a – 0.0106$. the constant 0.1904 is only slightly off the true mass of the system 0.1950kg. the discrepancy seen in the y intercept could be due to eternal forces acting on the system. this is supported by the enhanced theoretical equation, $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$,the force external divided by the mass of the system is equivalent to the y intercept, -0.0106, on the experimental equation. since the intercept is negative that means the external force was opposing the force applied, so the most likely source of this external force was friction on the ramp. even though the cart was on an air track that is supposed to minimize friction there will inevitably still be friction present. 

reflecting over other factors that could deviate the experimental equation from the theoretical, the mass of a heavy string is a strong candidate. as the hanging mass drops the amount of the string off the track increases, this increases the hanging mass causing the force applied to increase. since the mass of the system is constant it is the acceleration that changes and in this case, it will increase. this assumption is supported by the formulated equations directly relating force applied and acceleration of the system. 

other factors that can impact the results of the experiment include random and systematic errors. random errors such as air resistance, fluctuations in the air track and swinging hanging mass could all affect the precision of the data and cause data points to not fall on the line of best fit. these errors were addressed by making sure all the components of the system were at rest before the air track was turned on. systematic errors such as a slanted ramp, mis-calibrated photogate timer and balance could skew the graph causing a proportional change in the slope and intercept. to help remedy these issues the balance was calibrated correctly before each measurement. however, there were certain constraints on the lab that prevented solutions to some of the errors. for instance, the calibration of the timer was preset and was not to be tampered with. also, the resources were not available to assess the level of the ramp. if the ramp was sloped slightly downward this would make the acceleration larger than the true value. the opposing force of friction was also an issue that decreases the acceleration of the system was beyond means of addressing. time is another large constraint, limiting the number of trials performed to eight and no replicate for each trial. this lowers the accuracy of the data so by increasing trial and replicate in future testing as well as using tools such as a level can be used to ensure that the ramp is not sloped will lead to a more accurate and precise representation of data collected.  





