discussion: 



the purpose of weeks 5 and 6 were to investigate the effect of the force of a hanging mass on the acceleration of the system to investigate newton’s laws. specifically, we investigated newton’s second law and the theoretical equation force $f= m a$. the experiment conducted addresses our research question because it directly assesses the relationship that force has on acceleration. by interchanging the bobbers from the top of the cart to the bottom of the string, we were able to successfully change the force of the hanging mass while keeping the mass of the system the same. the force of hanging mass definitely has an effect on acceleration, which can be seen through the fact that a straight line cannot be drawn through the very small error bars on our graph. the mathematical model that resulted from this experiment addresses the research question, because the mass of any weight that is added to the string can be converted into force by multiplying the mass by gravity (9.8m/s²), to solve for the acceleration of the system. after comparing our theoretical model of $y=4.7102 x-0.0832$ to other groups’ mathematical models and results from their experiments, we concluded that our mathematical model supported the theoretical model. the following figures are the results of our fellow classmates’ experiments is  




the mathematical model presented by team parthos in figure 2, $y=5.0147 x-0.0318$, support our mathematical model of $y=4.7102 x-0.0832$ because the numbers are similar in range. we calculated similar slopes of 5.0147 and 4.7102. testing a sample force of 5 n would give resulting accelerations of 25.04 m/s² (using parthos equation) and 23.47 m/s² (using our equation). these resulting accelerations are very similar. the mathematical model presented by team sato in figure 3, $y=0.5259 x-0.0515$ refutes our model of $y=4.7102 x-0.0832$ because the numbers in the equation are very different from ours. although we both gathered linear trends, we have a much larger slope in our equation, whereas team sato has a decimal slope. we also calculated very dissimilar accelerations of 1.84 m/s² (our data) and 0.154 m/s² (sato’s data) when testing 0.4077 n (our data) and 0.4753 n (sato’s data). because these forces are very similar, we expected to see similar measured accelerations, but did not. it can be concluded that the only other force acting on our system is the force of friction. this force is accounted for in our mathematical model in the y intercept. so theoretically, if there were no force due to mass acting on the system, friction would be the only thing creating acceleration. the mass of the system can be seen in our mathematical model through the slope of 4.7102. this number is calculated by taking 1/the system’s mass and multiplying it by the force of gravity (9.8 m/s²). if we were to use a non-massless string to conduct our experiment, we believe that the uniform acceleration would remain unchanged and continue to have a linear trend. we believe this because we would be contributing additional mass to the system, but not changing any other force factors, such as friction. some systematic errors that could contribute to our experiment were precision errors in the datastudio system or scale we used to measure the masses of our cart and bobbers, or resistance on the precision air track. we could reduce these errors in the future by utilizing more specific measurement tools that account for more significant figures in both mass and acceleration and utilizing different air track systems. random errors that could have occurred during this experiment were mismeasuring the mass of the bobbers and cart and placing the bobbers in undesirable locations on the cart to create poorly distributed mass. these errors could be prevented by rearranging the bobbers on the top of the cart to evenly spread their mass and taking more precise measurements. there are some constraints from our experiment that would limit the generalizability of our results, because we had to account for both random and systematic errors. future experiments wishing to test the same research question should utilize different air-track systems to be sure that friction is negated completely.