conclusion:


in this experiment we tested whether the mass of the bob, angle of release, and length of the string impact the period of the pendulum for small swings. first, we tested the relationship between period and mass using the masses listed in table 4. the data that we achieved showed the mass having no effect on the period of the pendulum as seen by the period values being close together. our results for this experiment are visually depicted in figure 1 and this graph shows what appears to be a negative relationship between increasing mass and period, however this is caused by the second increments on the y-axis being very close together in value. if graphed with larger increments, it shows no relationship between the mass of a pendulum’s bob and its period. next, we varied the lengths of the pendulum’s string by increments of 5 cm. once we obtained our values for the period, the graph shown in figure 2 displays a significant change in the period values. this shows us that there is a relationship between string length and period. lastly, we wanted to test the effect that the angle of release had on the period. this was done by varying the degrees by 5 for each trial. figure 3 shows no visible relationship between the two variables. 

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=2$. our data fits with this model because the only variable contained in the model out of all three that we tested is the length of the string (l) and our data confirmed that only length of string, not angle of release or mass of bob, impacts the period. our data in tables 4 and 6 showed no relationships with period and are therefore not included in the equation. however, in table 5 and figure 2 there is a positive trend between length of string and period showing that as the length increased, so did the time of the period. this fits with the theoretical model because as l increases, the value of t will also increase. 

	errors that occurred during this experiment may have been caused by using only two people with stopwatches to record the time for one pendulum period. this was later remedied by redoing the length of string versus period trial using a photogate to record the exact time of each period. another error that may have occurred is the individual releasing the pendulum may have accidentally applied a force to it such as pushing it or pulling it back slightly before the release. this could be remedied by using a machine to remotely release the pendulum. an error that we could remedy is that the mass added to the bob may not have been measured correctly using the standard balance, and this could be fixed by using an electronic balance to measure mass. a constraint to generalization of this experiment is that it was only tested using small swings of the pendulum and cannot be generalized to account for pendulums with a much larger swing.