discussion and conclusion: 

	the purpose of this experiment was to answer the research question. the research question being investigated throughout both labs were “how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes?” the variable being tested was the acceleration of the cart (m/s^2). the experimental setup of this lab helped answer the research question because the independent variable was the hanging mass. with this setup we could observe how the acceleration changed when the mass increased. looking at figure 1, we determined that the relationship between the acceleration and the applied force is linear. with looking at the relationship between acceleration and applied force, the equation for force, is a simple multiplication equation where mass and acceleration are multiplied with one another with no other significant mathematical functions, this indicates a simple linear relationship. the error bars were too small to be seen (0.001-0.008). the equation of the line of best fit was $y=4.6961 x - 0.0841$.

	the data that was collected by group name, can show a similar claim from our data. the data shows the greater the force on the hanging mass, the greater the acceleration. this data shows that the error bars were too small to be seen on their graph. this claim can be made that there is a positive linear correlation between the force on the hanging mass and acceleration. the equation from the data that they collected was $y=5.1 x - 52.9$. the data that was collected by this group has more accurate data because it was more accurate to the theoretical model. the theoretical number is 5.3x, and we had 4.7x and this group had 5.1x. the data collected on the force of the hanging mass has higher values than what our group had. because of these high numbers, they had a greater negative value for the external force on the system. the value was negative 10.37. this value should be closer to zero. 

	the data collected by dusty pigeons can show the same claim from our data. the data also shows the greater the force on the hanging mass, the greater the acceleration. just by looking at their data, we can say that the error bars were too small to be seen on their graph. a claim can be made that there is a positive linear relationship between the force and the acceleration. the equation of the line of best fit from their data was $y=5.1023 x - 0.0202$. this equation was closer to the group’s name equation, but different from the y-intercept value. this groups y-intercept value was closer to ours in our equation. the data that was collected by this group has accurate data because of this positive linear relationship. the value of the external force was 0.0038.

	the theoretical mathematical model is $x=5.5648 y$. the experimental mathematical model that was derived from the data was $y=4.6961 x-0.084$. this is a little bit off from the theoretical model. the slope of the experimental model is 0.8687 off from the theoretical model. the y-intercept is 0.084 off from the model. the friction part of the theoretical mathematical model was neglected. this was neglected because a frictionless air track was used for the experiment. for this experiment, it was important to keep the mass of the system constant because it was one of the controlled variables. this helped with the relationship between the force and acceleration. 

	the enhanced theoretical model is the $f=m a$. this equation is not supported by the mathematical model because there was no friction in the conducted experiment. there was no friction constant given and because of this, there was not a way to see if the experimental model is more consistent with the mathematical model. if friction was present in this experiment, it would have decreased the acceleration. if the string in the experiment had mass, then this could cause the acceleration to decrease and the mass to increase. this is because by keeping the force constant and increasing the mass of the system we would be able to see the effect on the acceleration. when you divide force by a large mass of the system it will make the acceleration smaller. another force that can be present is air resistance, which has an effect on the y-intercept in the experimental model. the slope is the mass of the system in the experimental mathematical model. 

	the random errors that could have been present during the experiment that could have affected the data was not releasing the cart at the same time you pressed the start button on the computer. this could have been reduced by communicating with the lab partner to release the cart and press the button at the same time. another random error could be not releasing the cart from the same place every time. this error was reduced by using a ruler to measure out the distance on the track to make sure it started from the same point every trial. some systematic errors that could have affected the data collected was if the velocity reader could not have been properly calibrated, the track was not completely frictionless, and the air track not being properly horizontal. what could be done in the future to fix some of these errors in the future would be to use a level to properly align the track to be horizontal and to make sure the velocity reader is calibrated properly. 

	some constraints in this experiment that may have limited the generalization of our results were not knowing if the track was completely frictionless and air resistance. for the data to be most accurate, the track had to be completely frictionless and to make sure air resistance didn’t affect the acceleration. for the data to be most generalizable, the experiment would have been done in a vacuum and a friction constant would have been given. 	
