discussion and conclusion 

this lab was meant to answer the question, “does changing the force applied to a cart also change the acceleration?” to do this we used a cart on a low friction air track attached with a string and pully to a hanging mass. masses were moved from the cart to the weight on the other side of the pully, so the total mass of the system was kept constant while the hanging mass was increased. the force being applied was calculated using the mass of each weight measured on the balance, the gravitational acceleration constant, and $f=m a$. 
our experimental model is taken from the graph of force vs acceleration (figure 1). the trendline is given by the equation $y=3.8971 x - 0.025$ where y is acceleration, x is force, and the mass of the system is represented by the constant 3.8971. like the theoretical model, $f=m a$, this is a positive linear correlation which confirms our hypothesis. however, the theoretical model has its y intercept at the origin while our experimental model has a y intercept at -0.0255. this means that our measured acceleration is consistently lower than what is predicted by the theoretical model. this makes sense because the theoretical model doesn’t account for friction or air resistance. both forces would have acted against the applied force and lowered the acceleration. 
another potential source of error was the string. as the hanging mass begins to fall more of the string is pulled to the other side of the pully and its weight is added to the weight of the hanging mass, increasing the force as the cart moves down the track. this is a potential systematic error which we minimized in our experiment by using as light of a string as possible. some source of random errors came from variations in the track and were minimized by starting the cart from the same position for each trial. 
some limitations to the experiment are that we only tested a narrow range of forces 0.1176 n to 0.4038 n; without testing a broader range of forces we cant say if the relationship with acceleration is always linear or just linear for the range of forces we tested. 
all of the other groups concluded that there was a positive linear correlation between force and acceleration. their mathematical models all reflected this but had different constants for the mass of the system and the y intercepts, reflecting the different experimental designs and the variability of forces like friction and air resistance in each experimental set up.