discussion and conclusion:



	in these three labs, the question of whether the angle of release, the mass, or the length of the string effected the period of the pendulum was investigated. when testing whether or not the initial angle effected the period or not, both the mass and the length of the string were kept constant. based on table 4 and figure 1, it can be concluded that the initial angle does not affect the period of a pendulum – the two variables are not correlated. as seen in figure 1, the slope is 0 which indicates that the period did not change as the angle was changed. when testing whether or not the mass attached to the pendulum effects the period, only the length of the string was kept constant. since it was concluded that the angle did not affect the period, this aspect was disregarded. based on table 5 and figure 2, it was concluded that the mass also does not affect the period. figure 2 shows a relatively straight line with a slope of 0.0003 (~ 0). this confirms the prediction that the period does not change when the mass of the object is changed. finally, the effect of the length of the string on the period was tested. both the mass and the angle were the controls in this experiment. based on table 7 and figure 4, it can be concluded that the length of the string does in fact effect the period of the pendulum. as the string length increased, the period also increased – the length and period are directly related. this confirms that these two variables are in fact correlated.

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $y=0.8464 x$. the theoretical model for our data from figure 4 is $y=0.83224866 x$. in the form $y = ab$, “a” was off by 4.7% and “b” was off by 20%. the relationship in the pendulum length vs. period had a non-linear relationship, as seen in figure 4.

	as with any lab with quantitative data, error will be associated with the results. some random errors that can be associated with this lab include is  (1) timing error (not starting/stopping when necessary), (2) angle measurement error, and (3) lack of trials. in the future, these errors could be reduced by (1) using the same person for all measurements and (2) use a more precise protractor. finally, by conducting more trials can greatly help to reduce random error in the experiment.

some systematic errors that can be associated with this lab include is  (1) air resistance, (2) apparatus stability, and (3) use of old equipment. in the future, these errors could be reduced by (1) using a vacuum chamber, (2) providing more structural integrity to the apparatus, and (3) using newer equipment that is not stretched out or worn out. overall, the use of the old equipment along with the limited number of trials allowed were the two largest constraints on the experiment as a whole.