conclusion:

for this experiment, our research question was ‘what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?’ we conducted several experiments testing if mass, angle, and/or string length would affect the period of the pendulum, the time it took to make one complete swing. for the first experiment, we tested to see if the angle of release made an impact on the period length. for each experiment the dependent variable was the period length measured in seconds and the independent variable was either angle, string length, or mass. the pendulum was set up on the side of the table with a string attached to it. we measured three angles, (5,10,15), released them, and had someone use a stopwatch and start it when it was let go and stopped it when it came back. the time (in seconds) was then record for the three different angles. next, we decided to test the impact of mass. three different masses (in grams) were chosen and one was attached to the end of the string. again, the string was let go, the stopwatch was started and then stopped when it completed one swing. this was done for the two other masses and the time was recorded as well. finally, we tested length of the string. three different lengths were measured (in centimeters) and the time was recorded for each. 

for the second experiment we were looking at error analysis and the ranges of uncertainty due to the measuring technique used in the first experiment. the mass, angle, and string length were kept constant and 10 trials were run. just as in the first experiment, the pendulum was set up exactly the same. ten times the string was held at the same angle and released as the stopwatch started and stopped when it completed one swing. the data was recorded for each. the data was then inputted into excel. to determine the uncertainty due to the measuring technique, the standard deviation was calculated through excel and a graph was made with error bars. 

for the third experiment we were concerned with creating mathematical models for our data. since mass and angle did not impact the period length we omitted those two factors in this experiment. we just focused on string length. for this experiment, a photogate was used which enabled the period measurements to be of greater precision and thus reducing error bar size. the pendulum was set up the same exact way as the first two experiments, but this time the photogate is set up at the bottom on the table and the pendulum bob rests between the arms of the photogate so it could swing freely. a string length was measured then the string was released at ten degrees and the timer was started, using the pendulum timer given in lab. the photogate registered the string and recorded the time length of the period in seconds. the angle of release was held constant at ten degrees and this was repeated five other times for a total of six trials at different string lengths. 

these three experiments helped to determine what variable actually affected the period of a pendulum. we can see this clearly from the data recorded and the graphs made. starting with the first and second experiment, it can be determined that the angle of release and the mass does not affect the length of the period. in figure 1, graph of angle vs. period length, the error bars, based on the equivalency criterion, overlap each other which shows there is no relationship between the two variables. similarly, figure 3 shows only two points overlapping but it is enough to say that there was no impact. these two points overlapping could be from random error of not starting or stopping the stopwatch exactly at the right point. overlapping error bars means that the difference between the two means was not statistically significant thus the angle of release and mass did not impact the period length. also, if a line was drawn through the three points on the mass vs. period length graph and the angle of release vs. period length graph, they would be roughly linear. looking at tables 1a and 3a the data is roughly around the same period length each time. this maintains that there is in fact no relationship between the angle and mass and the period length and thus no impact on the period length. 

as seen in figure 2, the error bars do not overlap so we can be sure that the difference between the two means is statistically significant. this is also proven by looking at table 2a and 5a. as the string length increased, so did the period length. the independent (string length) and dependent (period length) variables had a cause and effect. figure 4 shows that the relationship was a nonlinear power relationship. that is, it had a slight curve. the line of best fit was a power relationship with the equation is  $y=0.1997 x^{0.5008}$. the mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is is  



the period of the pendulum depends on the length and the strength of gravity and is directly proportional. the period of the pendulum is then inversely proportional to the square root of the acceleration. the mass has no effect on the length of the period because gravity, the force driving the string down, is proportional to mass. an angle has virtually no effect on the length of the period and seen from the equation. in conclusion, only string length and gravity have an effect on the period length. the constant, 2π/√(g) is equal to 0.2007 which is in cm/s^2. the constant in our equation is equivalent to .1997 cm/s^1. therefore, the model we discovered is very similar to that of the accepted mathematical equation. similarly, looking at the exponent of x which is 0.5008, it is very close to the accepted value 0.5000 which shows this experiment having very little error as it is so close. 

errors are inevitable in experiments and ours was no exception. there were both systematic errors as well as random errors that could be accounted for in our experiment. systematic errors included the stopwatch was moving too fast or too slow and the weights were off in the masses that they were labeled as. random errors included not starting the stopwatch right when the pendulum was dropped and the reaction time.  we could reduce the systematic error by weighing the weights on the scale beforehand rather than accepting the values they say on them. random error could be reduced by completing more trials so there would be a larger set of data to take from. one constraint that may have limited the generalizability of the results was the fact that the string was only so long so the results and thus the mathematical model is only good for the string length that was given in the lab.