discussion and conclusion 

in this lab, the effect of applied force on the acceleration of the system was determined, by changing the amount of applied force and observing the resultant acceleration change. the experiment addresses the research question because in the experiment, the mass of the system was held constant, but the mass of the hanging weight was changed, to give more applied force, and as the weight was changed, the acceleration of the cart was determined using the air track system and the computer program that recorded the acceleration. the mathematical model found helps to answer the research question because it gives a model of the relationship. the relationship is as the applied force increases, the acceleration of the system also increases. the mathematical model shows this, as well as graph 2, which is the graph of the resultant mathematical model created using the calculated applied force and acceleration for each test run of the cart. in this lab, the hanging weight was the independent variable and it was changed, which changed the applied force on the system, which changed the acceleration of the system. this addresses the research question because the force was altered and because of this the acceleration of the system increased in response to the increase in applied force. graph 2 shows the relationship between force and acceleration, in the graph there are error bars present in both vertical and horizontal directions, but they are just too small to be visible on the graph. in this lab, the results of my group were compared to two other groups. the findings of the other two groups went along with the findings of my group. in the other two groups which my findings were compared to, they got the same overall result, that the acceleration increased when the applied force of the system increased. the findings of the first group are represented below in graphic 1.
the results of this group are very comparable to the results of our groups findings. in graphic 1, it can be seen that the hypothesis, iv and dv are the same as our groups. also, their results are the same as our results, their resultant mathematical model was slightly different from ours because their bobbers and their carts has different masses. overall their results were the same as out results in the experiment. our data was also compared to a second group, whose data can be shown in graphic 2, below. 
the results of their experiment were also the same as outs, their iv, dv and hypothesis were also comparable to our groups. their results were also the same as ours, a positive linear model, their model that was obtained was different than the model that we determined for the data we obtained. the data obtained by the second group, displayed in graphic 2, supports our claim that we made from the data we obtained and the mathematical model we made from the data. the mathematical relationship between the applied force and the acceleration is a liner relationship. the relationship is $y=4.987 - 6 x$ this relationship makes sense because the mass of the system stays the same, but the acceleration increases so the applied force must increase just as the acceleration increases. compared to the theoretical model, which is $a=\frac{f}{m}$, the model that we found was .0053 or 5-2, which is larger than 5-6 that we got in the equation of the line in graph 2. the experimental mathematical model supports the theoretical model. in this experiment the outside forces that act upon the system are the force of the air itself on the cart that allows the cart to move, this is brought into the model as the y-intercept of the graph and the resultant mathematical model. the mass of the system shows up in the experimental model in the slope of the line, it directly incorporated into the slope of the line, as 1/mass of the system. if the string of the system was not mass less it would affect the acceleration of the cart and make the acceleration be non-uniform because the weight of the string would contribute to the force of the system and would apply tension which would affect the amount of force on the system, but it would affect every test in the same way, the string is part of the system and its weight would be included in the system weight and it would not affect acceleration of the system in response to the change in applied force on the system. in this lab, there were errors that were present, some systematic and some random, one systemic error of this lab could have been scale error, which would have occurred in each measuring, and to reduce this error, the amount that the scale is off could be determined and then added or subtracted to the masses that were determined using this scale. another error could have been in the precision of the device used to determine the acceleration of the system. this could be reduced by finding this error and adding or subtracting it from the accelerations that were recorded using this system. also, other errors in this lab could have resulted from the measurement of the mass of the bobbers, they could have been non-precise. this could be reduced by having two group members look at the scale and determine what the mass of the bobbers is and comparing what the two group members got. constraints in this experiment exist due to the small size of the cart and the frictionless surface of the air track, there are not real frictionless situations in the real world, and it is not applicable to the real world, the force from the friction would have to be accounted for in a real-world application of this experiment. this affects generalizability of the results to real world scenarios. 
