discussion and conclusion

 

	in this lab, the research question being investigated was “what impacts the period of pendulum for small swings”. three separate experiments were performed, each investigating a different independent variable that could possibly have an impact on the period of a pendulum. the independent variables included string length, bob mass, and angle of release. tables 1 and 6, as well as graph 1 represent the data for determining the impact of bob mass on the period of a pendulum. the initial hypothesis and prediction for the effect of bob mass on the period of a pendulum was incorrect-there is no relationship between the two variables. the data represented in table 6 and graph 1 are most likely due to both random and systematic errors. tables 2, 7, 9, and 10, as well as graphs 2, 4, and 5 represent data for determining the impact of string length on the period of a pendulum. table 9 and graph 4 depicts repeated trials for taking data in order to reduce random error, while table 10 and graph 5 depicts the data collected using the photogate tool to create a mathematical model. the string length was the only variable that had a true impact on the period of the pendulum, as depicted in graphs 2, 4, and 5. each graph shows that, as the length of the string gets longer, the period gets longer as well, indicating a relationship between the two variables. tables 3 and 8, as well as graph 3 depict the data for determining the impact of angle of release on the period of a pendulum. the hypothesis and prediction stated in table 3 were incorrect, as indicated by graph 3. the graph shows that, even as the angle of release increases, there is very little to no change in the period of the pendulum. any small change was possibly due to both random and systematic error. when creating graphs from the collected data, a power function curve was used to best fit the data, due to the fact that it had an  value closest to 1 (0.9961). the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum was , which is comparable to the found mathematical model  indicated in graph 5. there were both random and systematic errors present in the experiments performed. the random errors included the two people taking time measurements not starting/stopping the stopwatches at the same time, the angle of release measurement wasn’t exactly the same for each trial, the length measurement wasn’t accurately taken each time, and possible interference with the period of the pendulum by stopping/grabbing the pendulum a little before or a little after the period was completed. in order to reduce these random errors, multiple trials were performed for the same variable being investigated (string length), without changing anything. using this data (indicated in table 9 and graph 4), an average could be taken to get a more accurate number for the period, and a standard deviation could also be found, using the equation . the degree of uncertainty was found to be 0.06827. the systematic errors included the triple beam balance reading either a little too high or a little too low; when changing the string length, the top screw securing it in place could have been not screwed in enough, possibly causing the string to shift downwards/slightly change in length for each measurement; and using two different types of stopwatches to measure the period of the pendulum, causing a difference in measurement. systematic error can be reduced by testing and/or calibrating the equipment prior to the experiment, as well as using reference values to identify the source of error and remove/replace it. constraints in this experiment that could limit the generalizability of the results was that a pendulum was studied in a controlled setting, barring any forces that could be present in a real world setting that could slightly change the values for the period of the pendulum.