conclusion:
In lab experiment one, on August 31, the question asked was “What impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?”. The dependent variable for the experiment was the total time for one swing of a pendulum. The three independent variables chosen were length of the string from which the pendulum was suspended, in centimeters (cm); the angle at which the pendulum was released, in degrees; and the mass of the pendulum, in grams (g). Each experiment had four trials. In each trial, the independent variable was changed slightly to measure the difference, of any. 
Each trial for each independent variable was conducted three times in the same way. One person would hold the pendulum as well as a stopwatch and another would hold a protractor to determine the angle. The first person would then release the pendulum while simultaneously starting the timer on the stopwatch. When the pendulum came back to their hand after one swing, the stopwatch was pressed again and the measurement of time for that swing recorded.
For the first factor investigated, the mass of the pendulum was chosen. The constant variables were the length of the string, which was 24 cm, and the angle at which the pendulum was released, which was 20 degrees. The four weights were chosen as 50g, 110g, 170g, and 250g. The hypothesis for this factor was that the weight of the pendulum would affect the time taken to complete one swing. The prediction for the outcome of this factor was that as the weight of the pendulum was increased, the time for the pendulum to take one swing would increase. The average for the three trials was compiled in table 1, as well as graphed in figure 1.
For the second factor investigated, the length of the string was chosen. The constant variables were the mass of the pendulum, which was 50g, and the angle at which the pendulum was released, which was 20 degrees. The four lengths were chosen as 5 cm, 50 cm, 100 cm, and 180 cm. The hypothesis for this factor was that the length of the string would affect the time taken to complete one swing. The prediction for the outcome of this factor was that as the length of the string was increased, the time for the pendulum to take one swing would increase. The average for the three trials was compiled in table 2, as well as graphed in figure 2.
For the third factor investigated, the angle from which the pendulum was dropped was chosen. The constant variables were the length of the string, which was 100 cm, and the mass of the pendulum, which was 50g. The four angles were chosen as 20 degrees, 30 degrees, 40 degrees and 60 degrees. The hypothesis for this factor was that the angle at which the pendulum was released would affect the time taken to complete one swing. The prediction for the outcome of this factor was that as the angle of the pendulum was increased, the time for the pendulum to take one swing would increase. The average for the three trials was compiled in table 3, as well as graphed in figure 3. 
In the second lab, on September 7, the data from the previous lab was analyzed and both random and systematic errors were concluded for the experiment. The systematic errors with our first experiment were is  the function of the stopwatch compared to others, accuracy/ age of the tape measure, accuracy of the scale, accuracy of the protractors and the weight variance of each slotted weight on the pendulum. The random errors with our first experiment were is  assuming the weight of the slotted weights were consistent, stopwatch operation and consistency, measuring the length of the string accurately, the consistency of which the angle was exact when the pendulum was released, and measuring the interval length with the stopwatch. 
If the experiment was repeated, several things could be done differently to improve accuracy and reduce any errors. More trials could be conducted to more closely approach the true value of each testable object. The level of uncertainty could be calculated for each instrument used. The slotted weights could be weighed individually and labeled according to their true weight. A stopper or mark could be used on the starting angle of the string on the protractor. Using multiple rulers or measuring tapes could help determine the string length. When using the timer, the same person could have been consistently using the same timer for each trial.
After analyzing the graphs created, the prediction was that the angle of release did not correlate with the time taken to complete one swing. The length of the string and the mass of the pendulum, however, were thought to have a correlation. 
The experiment was recreated with constant mass of 50g, angle of 20 degrees and string length of 25 cm and ten trials were conducted, as shown in table 4. This was done so the standard deviation for each independent variable could be found. It was found that the average time it took for a complete swing was 0.91 seconds and the standard deviation was 0.037. The standard deviation was then added to graphs 1-3. The standard deviation for these tests then became the range of uncertainty.
The horizontal line test was performed for all graphs and the both the mass and angle graphs had close enough standard deviation, that they were deemed to not have a correlation with the swing time. This is because the standard deviation lines were horizontally consistent. Therefore, the change was ruled to be within the range of uncertainty. The length of the string did correlate throughout the entire experiment, therefore the predictions made for this independent variable were deemed to be accurate. 

In the third lab, on September 14, the experiment was conducted once again on the independent variable that was deemed to have correlation with the dependent variable is  length of the string. This experiment was conducted using a photogate, which tracked and averaged the swings taken by the pendulum upon release. The length of the string was tested at 5 cm, 50 cm, 100 cm, and 150 cm. Each length had three trials conducted and the pendulum could swing seven times to obtain the average time. The average was then taken from the three trials for each length, as table 5 shows. The standard deviation was calculated for each average, but they were too small to be used as compared to the scale error of the photogate. The estimated uncertainty was taken from the scale error of the photogate, which was 0.001. This was used as the error bars in the graph in figure 4.
The theoretical equation for the mathematical modeling for the time of the swing compared to the length of the string is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. When reassembling that equation, it comes out to $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. This can be simplified further to 2π/√g which is 2.007. When graphing the equation, as seen in figure 5, the equation that was calculated at the end of the graphing was $y=2.0938x^{0.3663}$. The group felt that 2.007 and 2.0938 were very close, and the standard deviation was calculated correctly. There was only small error in the experiment. Systematic error coming from the photogate, and possibly random error from small mistakes measuring length of the string or angle of the pendulum. There were quite a few factors, such as human error, that could not make this experiment turn out exactly perfect, but minimizing error was a foundation for finding “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?”.


