discussion	

	this lab investigated the question of “what affects the period of a pendulum for small swings?”. the first experiment we conducted focused on the effects of manipulating the string length. we hypothesized a relationship, and predicted that it would be a positive correlation. we chose to test a large range of lengths, as seen by table 2. figure 1 shows a positive correlation between the string length and the time period of the pendulum. the second experiment focused on the manipulation of the mass of the pendulum. again, we performed the experiment over a large range of masses. however, disregarding the outlier, figure 2 does not show a significant relationship between mass and period. finally, we changed the angle for each trial. while a slight correlation is seen in figure 3, it is not significant enough to say that there is a relationship between the two. 

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is as follows is  $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. as seen by the theoretical mathematical model, the mass of the pendulum is not included, nor is the angle of the swing. this matches with our data because figure 1 was the only graph with a large enough slope of best fit to be considered significant. figure 2 and figure 3 do not show big enough slopes to be considered significant relationships, which makes sense as to why they are not seen in the theoretical model. our data is trustworthy as seen by the small error bars in all of our figures.

	errors in this lab were present. one random error includes error with measuring periods. while one person was in charge of the stop watch, it is difficult to measure the exact release of the swing and start the stopwatch at this time. similarly, it is difficult to measure the exact end of the pendulum period with the naked eye and stopping the stopwatch at this exact time. one way to correct this would be to perform one trial several times and take the averages of the periods, or to use multiple stopwatches. another random error would be inaccurate protractor readings, as we changed who read the protractor each time. this can be changed by taking averages for protractor readings or having one person read the angle of the protractor every time, to maintain consistency. one systematic error is that the weights are not labeled accurately, as some weigh slightly more or slightly less than what is labeled. an easy fix to this would be to weigh the weights on an accurate scale to get an accurate weight.   

	constraints in this experiment include the fact that we only experimented small swings and this was all done in a small scale undergraduate physics lab. this makes it harder to translate the findings to larger scale pendulums that have practical purposes in everyday life. however, our findings support the theoretical mathematical model.