discussion:

the purpose of this experiment was to model the newton’s second law by varying the distribution of mass in a system and then measuring the change in acceleration. the experiment conducted deals with the question of whether varying the hanging force will have an effect on the acceleration by measuring the mass of the system and systematically changing the weight of the hanging force. starting with a single bobber on the hanging end the weight was increased by one bobber per trial for five trials. the accelerations that were measured were plotted on a graph over the hanging force as seen in graph 1. based on the points of the graph the conclusion can be made that the acceleration of the system has a positive correlation with the hanging force of the system. this is backed up by the line of fit having an r squared value close to one as well as the fact that this conclusion conforms to newton’s second law. if the force on an object increases, but the mass of the system is held constant, then the variable that must increase is the acceleration if $f=m a$ is true. when using the mathematical and theoretical models to determine the hanging force necessary to achieve a certain acceleration the results of the two systems gave varying success. using the mathematical model the hanging force calculated was only 10.08 grams. this force ended up being very inadequate when testing it with the new heavier cart. when using the theoretical model though, derived from $f=m a$, the mass of the hanging force came out to be 16.27 grams. the calculated acceleration of the system the second time was much more accurate in relation to the requested acceleration. when examining the experimental model there are other forces that acted on the system that slowed the measured accelerations when compared to the theoretical model that does not incorporate these forces. these forces include the force of friction, although small, between the air track and the cart and the air resistance, although even smaller, encountered in the room. the mass of the system shows up in the experimental model specifically in the slope when the equation is modeled as $f=m a$, where the mass of the system is 1/m. if the string between the cart and the hanging force was massless then the acceleration of the system would be more uniform because there would not be any energy exerted in making the string taught and pulling its weight. error in this experiment was experienced mainly in the form of random error which occurred through things like not consistently releasing the cart from the same position and possibly placing a small amount of force when releasing the cart on the track. efforts to mitigate the effects of these errors included checking the distance if release from the pulley at each release, doing multiple trials and making sure to simply release the cart and not act on it in any way on release. the generalizability of this experiment is hindered mainly by the time constraints in the lab. if more time was allowed more trials of each weight could be done and the resulting accelerations averaged. the air track could be improved to produce no friction at all which would further increase the reliability of the measured data. 
