Discussion and Conclusion
The purpose of this lab was to test and determine if there was any relationship between the applied force on a cart and the acceleration of the cart on a frictionless track. The research question of this lab is How does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes? This was tested by changing the mass (number of bobbers) hanging from the cart but keeping the overall mass of the system constant. 
The experimental model addresses the research question by providing data that can be displayed in a graph. The graph provided above shows a strong positive linear correlation between the data points showing that there is indeed a relationship between the applied force and the acceleration. We know there is a strong correlation because the R2 value is 0.9998 which is nearly 1.00. The mathematical relationship between acceleration and applied force is $a=5.1096 m - 0.028$ and agrees with the theoretical mathematic model which is is  $a = \frac{f_{applied}}{m_system} + C$. In fact, our graph plotted from our data proved our prediction to be correct.  

	The data from group 3 supports our group’s claim of there being a relationship between the applied force on a cart and the acceleration. From the data provided above, there is a strong positive correlation between the applied force and the acceleration. We know this because the R2 value is 0.9792, which is not as strong as our R2 value, but still strong enough to prove there is a correlation. 

	The data from group 2 also supports our group’s claim of there being a relationship between the applied force on a cart and the acceleration. The data provided above shows that there is a strong positive correlation between the applied force and the acceleration. We know this because the R2 value is 0.9905 which is nearly 1.00. 

In the experimental model there may be other forces present such as friction or air resistance that will affect the model’s acceleration. In the experimental model of $a=5.1096 m - 0.028$, the mass of the system shows up as is  5.1096. If the string had appreciable mass, then it would be included in the mass of the system. This would not affect the acceleration of the cart; therefore, it would still undergo uniform acceleration. Possible systematic errors that were present includes the balance being uncalibrated, the velocity sensor being uncalibrated or the inconsistent air flow on the frictionless track the cart sat on. The errors that involved the balance or velocity sensor could be reduced by using a more precise balance and sensor to eliminate some of the uncertainty. It would be hard to reduce the inconsistent air flow unless the system was in a complete closed off room with no other outside forces to act on the system. Some constraints in this experiment that limited the generalizability of our results would be the time provided to complete the lab. If we had more time, there could have been more trials produced for each applied force and therefore had more data to compare from each of the groups. 
