discussion and conclusion

the test for this experiment was to determine what factors and changes of a pendulum will change its period over the course of one swing.

the three experiments each addressed the research question in a different way. the first experiment was to show in a real-world sense, with error, what changes can be made to a pendulum to show a change in the period. this experiment allowed us to change the weight, length of the string and the angle of release to allow us to think about which factor will have the largest impact on the period overall. experiment 2 showed us how each factor would perform in an ideal situation. this experiment allowed us to narrow down which change to the pendulum would have the largest impact on the period in an ideal world. experiment 3 allowed us to test which independent variable we believed would have the largest effect on the period. we thought that the length of string would have the largest impact on the period and according to our results it did. experiment 3 also allowed us to get more accurate readings to prove or disprove our theory and in our case the more accurate reading helped to confirm our theory that the change in the length of string would have the greatest effect on the period of the pendulum.

theoretically the mathematical model for this experiment should be that of a power function. our data fits this model because according to our last and most accurate test, the line of best fit was that of a power function. this allowed us to confirm that our theory about the string length being the best factor to change the period was correct. we knew that after the first experiment that the mass and angle were not going to change the pendulum much because since the theoretical model required it to be a power function, it made no sense for the mass or angle to work because both of those graphs were closer to linear than power function whereas the length of the string graph was closer to a power function. overall this meant that the length of string had to be the best variable to change since it fit the power function the best.

there were many errors during this lab, but majority of the errors were systematic rather than random. a couple of the systematic errors in this lab include how things were measured. for instance, the angle was kept at around 15 degrees throughout the experiment, but it is very hard to measure out exactly 15 degrees since it is such a precise number that it could either be a little more or a little less which would have an overall effect on the system. another systematic error came with the measurement of the string. although we tried to keep the number as precise as we could it wasn’t always 100 percent accurate. these slight deviations would also have an overall effect on the experiment and whether or not the correct results were achieved. the last systematic error that came to mind was the stopwatch. the stopwatch allowed for the time to be taken but it relied on the persons reflexes to start and stop the timer at the right time. also, the stopwatch wasn’t nearly as accurate as it could have been skimpily because it relied too much on human interaction to achieve a time that would be 100 percent accurate. this deficiency caused the readings of majority of our first experiment to be very bad and nowhere near the numbers that would be considered ideal.

there aren’t many constraints that come to mind concerning this experiment but one of the most obvious constraints is the amount of times the experiment was ran. if the experiment was ran more than it would have been then the numbers would be more accurate and precise allowing for even better readings. since we were only able to run the experiment a few times it meant that the numbers weren’t as accurate and precise as they should be in order to communicate our findings.