discussion and conclusion

the research question for this lab was “what impacts the period of a pendulum?”

while investigating string length as the independent variable, it was discovered that this does in fact affect the period of a pendulum.  looking back at the data from experiment 01, it is plain that, generally, as the string length increased, so did the period.  the largest period value (1.12 s) appears when string length is at its longest (50 cm). the smallest period value (0.67 s) appears when string length is at its shortest (20 cm).  the same cannot be said for the other sets of data, however.  the minimum and maximum values of the dependent variable don’t necessarily correspond to the minimum and maximum variables of the independent variables.  this is also visible on the graphs.  the uncertainty for the period from the string length tests calculated in experiment 02 is the largest out of all the uncertainties (0.2). the error bars on the string length vs average time graph also cover the largest range of values.

while investigating angle of release as the independent variable, it was discovered that the angle doesn’t affect the period.  looking at the data from experiment 01, it is clear that there is not much variation in the period values even as the angle of release increased.  this is reflected in the small uncertainty value (0.09 s) calculated for experiment 02. this is also visible in the error bars on the graph.  the earlier graph without the error bars may appear to have a positive slope, indicating that the period increased with the angle of release, but this is not true. the intervals of the period on the y-axis are very small which distort the graph, making it appear this way.

while investigating mass as the independent variable, it was discovered that mass does not affect the period either.  the data from experiment 01 suggests that change in mass does not result in a change in the period.  the values for the period are relatively consistent despite changes in mass, and this consistency is reflected in the uncertainty calculated in experiment 2 (0.07 s) which can also be seen in the graphs with the error bars. the same issue with the small intervals on the graphs appears here also.

the theoretical equation for a period is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$.  the mathematical model found in experiment 03 through plotting length vs period to make a power relationship, $t=2.02 l^{0.499}$ supports the theoretical equation because values entered for length will result in similar values for period. for example, if 10 is entered as the length, with the theoretical model, the period is 6.35 s and with the mathematical model it is 6.37 s. this is true for all values.

random error impacted the results of this lab the most.  using people with stopwatches to time the period is an unreliable method that will ultimately end in inaccurate periods.  to combat this in experiment 01, the lab group had two people timing the periods and would average the two times together, but it was not as effective as we hoped.  in experiment 03, a photogate timer was used which eliminated the need for people with stopwatches and was accurate within .001 s.  there was no obvious evidence or source of systematic error.

constraints that affected this lab would include the time limit and the available equipment.  two hours were allotted for each experiment.  sometimes this would result in rushed work because there just wasn’t enough time to finish everything properly.  numbers were rounded and not everything was totally exact.  the equipment also affected the results.  the string was so long so we couldn’t test past a certain length. also, there were only so many masses, so we couldn’t test masses past a certain amount.  these would all create a generalization of the results.