discussion and conclusion

   this lab aimed to investigate what variables have an impact on the period of a pendulum. this was done by conducting three experiments, in which one independent variable was varied, while other variables were held constant. the dependent variable, period time, was then measured and the data gathered was graphed and analyzed for any correlations. in experiment one (table 1), the relationship between string length and period time was measured, with string length being the independent variable which was varied throughout the experiment. the data gathered showed a significant correlation. when the data was fitted with a trendline (power), it had a very high r2 value, showing an almost perfect fit (figure 1). the error bars on this graph are very small and have no overlapping and measurement uncertainty is extremely low. this supports the claim that string length does have an impact on the period of a pendulum. in experiment two (table 2), the relationship between the angle at which the pendulum was released and period time was measured. the angle of release being the independent variable, was varied in this experiment. the data gathered showed a significant correlation. again, when the graphed data was fitted with a trendline (polynomial), it had a very high r2 value, showing an almost perfect fit (figure 2). the error bars on this graph are very small and have no overlapping. this supports the claim that angel of release does have an impact on the period of a pendulum. finally, in experiment three (table 3), the relationship between the weight of the pendulum and period time was measured. the weight of the pendulum being the independent variable, was varied in this experiment. the data showed no significant correlation. no trendlines showed a similar fit to the graphed data (figure 3). the error bars on this graph are very large and have lots of overlapping and measurement uncertainty is relatively large. this supports the claim that weight has no impact on the period of a pendulum. 

    the theoretical mathematical model for a simple pendulum can be expressed by the differential equatio$n=0$. more specifically, the relationship between period, t and length,  can be expressed as $t=2$  . using the same length measurements as in experiment 1, the theoretical period amounts were calculated and graphed. the results showed that the theoretical values were slightly lower than the experimental ones. when the equivalency criterion was used to compare the experimental values with the theoretical values, the theoretical values were not within the uncertainty range of the experimental values. however, the trendline fit to the theoretical graphed data showed an almost identical fit and shape to that of the experimental one (figure 1).  the given theoretical mathematical model for a period does not include a variable for the angel of release, and it is assumed that this model is only true for small angles. there is no theoretical mathematical model that can express the relationship between all angles and period time, so despite the strong trend (figure 2), it cannot be claimed that the angle of release has an impact on the period of a pendulum. as well, there is no variable for mass of pendulum in the theoretical mathematical model of a period, clearly suggesting that it has no significant impact on period time. this supports the original claim that the mass of a pendulum has no impact on the period time, shown in the graphed data (figure 3). 

      it is seen from comparison of experiment one (table 1) results with the theoretical model that there is systematic error present in this experiment. the theoretical values were not within the uncertainty range of the experimental values, but both values shared extremely similar patterns and trendlines, suggesting the experimental values were subsequently skewed to one side. in the future, if experimental values are affected by systematic error like this, all values can be reduced or added by a certain percent or value, the same for all data. this will shift the distribution to one side, in the opposite direction of the original skew (centering it). there was also random error present in these experiments. observational error can be assumed when using human operated timers like in experiment three (table 3), seeing as the operator’s judgement of when the period begins and ends, therefore, when to press start and stop, has relatively high uncertainty and variability. in order to minimize this error, the large measurement uncertainty was taken into consideration and calculated to produce error bars (figure 3). another way to minimize this error is to use measurement tools with lower uncertainty, like the photogate that was used in experiments one (table 1) and two (table 2). because this device had far less measurement uncertainty, the error bars shown on the graphed data (figure 1 & 2) have very small error bars. 

      due to the settings and conditions under which these experiments were conducted, there were certain constraints that could possibly have limited the generalizability of these results. these experiments were conducted in three, two-hour intervals, which were each a week apart. this time constraint could have produced more rushed and inaccurate data results. also, the large time gap between each interval could have caused forgetfulness and less uniform measurement techniques.