discussion and conclusion:

	the research question that was being investigated in labs 1-3 was “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?” and was investigated through several different dependent variables. the three dependent variables that were tested were the length of the string of the pendulum, weight of the pendulum, and the angle of release were all investigated and the effect that each dependent variable had on the time of the pendulum was observed. in lab one, the research question was addressed through a physical model of a pendulum and through the use of independent, control, and dependent variables while using a stopwatch to collect data for time of pendulum swing. lab 2 revolved around analyzing the data collected in lab 1 to identify errors and trends present with the data to draw conclusions about relationships between independent and dependent variables. lab 3 collected new data using the same dependent and independent variables as in lab 1 but with a more accurate form of measurement using a computer software to help reduce errors present that were identified in lab 2. the findings found in the three labs were used to draw definite conclusions and the following was found to be true; a positive linear relationship between length of string and time of period, a minor power curve relationship between weight of pendulum and time of period, and a minor exponential curve between angle of string and time of period in reference to the research question of what affects the pendulum period time. the findings compared to the theoretical mathematical model for the pendulum of $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ does fit with our findings as the angle and weight of the pendulum are not accounted for in the formula wile length of the string is included (l). plugging our own lengths into the equation and comparing the t value to points in the data gives quite similar variables, confirming the data collected in the experiment is relevant and accurate. errors present in the experiment can be attributed to human error, especially in lab 1 where stopwatches were used to collect times of period or misuse of the protractor for the angle in terms of random error. in terms of systematic error can be attributed to incorrect weights being used through inaccurate scales or incorrect length of string readings through an inaccurate ruler. constraints present in the experiment would be lack of enough data to draw conclusions on larger angles, weights, or length of string that were able to be used with our physical pendulum limits the generalizability of the experiment. other constraints present may be the lack of a large number of samples present with only a few samples taken for each dependent variable.