Discussion and Conclusion:
The purpose of this lab was to develop mathematical models that describe the behavior of a “real” system as well as to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value in the model. We had to find the relationship between Force of a pulling force and acceleration and how the mass of the system impacted the acceleration. After that was found, we had to find the relationship between the angle of the surface and acceleration.

 Investigation 5.2 in Lab 05 led us to find that when you change the total mass of the system while keeping the pull force constant causes a power relationship and causes the cart to accelerate less as the mass of the cart increases. Also, Investigation5.1 in Lab 05 showed us that by keeping the total mass of the system constant the acceleration of the cart increased linearly as the pull force increased. From the experiments in Investigation 6.1 in Lab 06, we were able to find that when you change the pull force and how much forward angle there is in the track while having the mass of the system not constant, the y-intercept of the mathematical model from Investigation 5.2 changes which creates a linear mathematical model. I think this change in the mathematical model is due to the force of gravity acting on the cart is increasing in the direction of the carts motion. That increase in gravitational force gets added to the force of the pulling force and causes the cart to accelerate more. This also shows that the angle of the track is representative of the y-intercept on the mathematical model such as the from Investigation 5.1 that had a y-intercept close to zero when the angle was zero. The intercept was not exactly zero due to the track not being perfectly horizontal. All of this tells us that the angle of a surface and the amount of force pulling the cart along a frictionless surface impact the acceleration either positively or negatively.

Based off data from Group #4, a group that tested the same hypothesis as us, the results from our experiment hold true. The other group had data that showed as the forward tilt increased, the y-intercept of the mathematical model increased, and further supports our findings.


Based off data from Group #6, a group that tested how an increasing backwards tilt in the track affected the y-intercept, their data showed that the y-intercept decreased as the backwards tilt increased. This makes sense because in our experiment, the component that force of gravity acted on the cart increased because the cart was traveling more downhill, and as the backwards tilt increased the crat would be going against gravity which would cause it to accelerate at a slower rate. The other groups data had the same effect on the y-intercept of the mathematical model the same as ours but negatively.



 If the experiment were to have included a heavy string, then the acceleration would not be constant assuming the total mass of the system was made constant. The cart would accelerate slower in the beginning and faster in the end, because pulling force would increase as the string pulled the cart up the track because there would be more weight pulling the cart along the track at the end than the start. It would show a power relationship rather than a linear one.

 One possible error that could have affected our data is that the setup was not entirely frictionless. Despite the setup being designed to simulate a frictionless scenario, a very minimal amount of friction between the cart and the track or in the wheel of the pulley sensor. The friction would have been a systematic error that resulted in all our acceleration values to be lower than what they should have been. Ways to improve the friction between the cart and the track could include finding other methods of producing a frictionless surface between the cart and the track or by making the cart levitate a little high off the track to reduce the possibility of the cart touching the track. 

 One of the constraints in this experiment was the time allowed in class to collect data. If we could spend more time collecting data with more trials, then our data would be more accurate.
 Based off the equation $F=ma$ a causal, proportional relationship exists between net force and acceleration when mass is constant. To keep the equation true, when one value increases or decreases, then the other must increase or decrease by the same coefficient.
