discussion and conclusion



we tested which factors affect the period of the pendulum. in the three experiments we tested is  the length of the string, the mass of the pendulum and the release angle of the pendulum. my claim was that the only variable to affect the period of the pendulum is the length of the string. based on the data collected and the graphs made, i can conclude that the claim is accurate and the only variable that affects the pendulum is the length of the string.  based on the data, the mass and release angle did not change the period of the pendulum. we can account any error in the data for those two data sets to be due to human error with the timer. based on the length graph the slope of the line is positive and constant. this means that as the string length increases, the period of the pendulum also increases. in the mass graph the slope of the best fit line is 0. this is because the mass doesn’t affect the period. so as the mass increases the period does not change. same for the angle of release graph, the slope is 0 which means the angle of release does not affect the period of the pendulum.



	our mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is $y=0.1971 x^{0.504}$. our data fits this model because having x is length of the string and y is  period of the pendulum. as x increases y will also increase as we predicted it to. just like the graph above for length, as the x axis increased, the y axis increased as well. mass and angle were kept constant in this experiment, so they do not affect the period of the pendulum. the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is       $t=2\pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$       where l is length and t is period. this is similar to our equation how it only uses length and as the length increases in that equation the period increases similar to our calculated equation. 

	in lab 01 and 02, we had random error. this is because human error is random because we arent perfect and can’t consistently time the pendulum perfectly or be off by the same amount in each trial. we did not start the timer exactly when the pendulum was dropped. this caused a random error because we were off by small random amounts on each trial. we also had random error at the end when were at the end of the trials. we didn’t stop the timer right as the pendulum completed its 10th period which meant we were off by small random amounts. we also didn’t release the pendulum from the exact same angle each time either. in lab 03 however, there was systematic error due to the photogate’s uncertainty of .001s. this meant that the photogate if inaccurate was consistently inaccurate by .001s for every trial. this made our data much more accurate and lead to better results. the photogate was the solution to our random error because we were no longer in control of the timing. the computer timed the trials and the computer had a much higher accuracy and much smaller systematic error than us. if we didn’t have the computer another way we could have made our data more accurate was by letting the pendulum swing a couple times until it is constant before starting the timer.