discussion and conclusion:



in this experiment, we were investigating how the length, mass, and angle of release affect the period of a pendulum under constant atmospheric conditions. in the first lab conducted, we recorded physical data that was able to be graphed, to give us a better representation on what really affects the period of the pendulum. for starters, looking at tables two and three, we can see that there is no visible relationship between the mass and angle of release versus the period. this led us to believe that those two variables don’t alter the period of the pendulum, but obviously, this shouldn’t be the only way we draw conclusions. that idea will be discussed more in the second lab. however, upon observing the table one, we see that the data forms a visible direct relationship. we see that there is a linear correlation between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum in the positive direction. this tells us that as the length of the pendulum increases, so does the duration of a single period of the pendulum. in the second lab, we looked at the possible errors, most random and systematic, that could’ve skewed the results in any way. we went through and recorded ten more trials of recording the pendulum at a constant mass, length, and angle and recorded the times, to see how much errors could’ve affected the results. what we found was that the standard deviation was a low value, meaning that if errors were present, there systematic meaning our data can still be considered precise. we also added error bars to our graphs and found that our claim of length being the only variable that affects the period of a pendulum accurate. the error bars shown in tables one and three are large, which means the range of uncertainty is high as opposed to table two where the error bars are smaller. this doesn’t mean that our data collected for the mass and angle or release is incorrect, it just tells us that we shouldn’t be confident in making any claims relating those two variables to the period. on the other hand, those same error bars produced on table two allows us to confidently say that the length of the pendulum will affect its period. in experiment three, we further tested the claim that the length does indeed affect the period of the pendulum, using records from the first two experiments, as well as known knowledge of the relationship. we used a photogate timer this time around in order to have more accurate and precise data, that can be shown on a graph. with, we were able to come up with a graph that depicts a relationship similar to the one that we were expecting. 

the theoretical model of a pendulum can be stated as 2*[(l/g)^(1/2)], where ‘l’ is equal to ‘x’ and can be compared to the mathematical model we came up with based off of our own data. the model that we came up with can be stated as $y=x^{0.503}$ which is what we were expecting it be, based off claims made in prior experiments. upon observing the model, we made, we can see that the exponent is relatively close one half of ‘x’, which is like what the theoretical model shows, where it states that ‘l’, which is the same as ‘x’, is being square rooted. we also observed that the mass and angle of release graphs, were unable to form relationships that could be comparable to the theoretical model stated above. this gave us more confidence in the data we collected, as well the claims that have been made throughout the three experiments we conducted.

in any experiment, both random and systematic errors can be expected to be made. random errors, which are errors made by the scientist working on the experiment, could have come up in the lab because there were a few areas where it was difficult to obtain definitive values for the measurements. this was reduced by taking multiple recordings of each trial, and then taking the average of those trials to be plotted on the graphs. this limits the random error, because we had a wider range of possibility that can show that our data is accurate in the end. systematic errors, which are errors that can stem from equipment used such as the stopwatches and protractors. systematic errors are different than random errors because although the data may not be considered accurate, it is still going to be precise which is easy to work with. to limit these systematic errors, we used experiment two to find the error bars and the standard deviation to see if the data was skewed, and if so, by how much. so, in the end they can be limited by reducing all the data by the correct amount to obtain values that are precise, accurate, and that we are confident in.

as for constraints that could affect the generalizability of the claims made, the first one we looked to be the natural conditions, or the environment of the laboratory. no matter what, for the most part, experiments like these will be conducted in earth’s atmosphere, so the gravity should not be considered a factor. but there are different conditions such as wind resistance in different parts of the area that could alter the results obtained by different groups doing the same experiments. other constraints that can be considered would be how other groups could also be using different equipment that is more or less accurate than what we used to conduct the lab.