discussion and conclusion 



	in this lab we tested which independent variable had the largest impact on the period of a pendulum. each trial tested a different variable for this question. the first trial we did was testing the length of the pendulum. looking back on the graph titled “length of pendulum vs period length” we were able to change the length of the pendulum as show on the x-axis and this had a positive affect on the length of the period as shown on the y-axis. these claims are made on the conditions that mass be held constant at 50 grams and release angle be held constant at 30 degrees. the error bars on the graph validate our claim because of the lack of overlap between points. 

	in the second trial we made the release angle the independent variable. looking at the graph above titled “release angle vs pendulum period”, we changed the release angle on the x-axis to see if it had any affect on the period length on the y-axis. using this data along with the overlapping error bars on the graph, we can claim that the release angle has no affect on the period of the pendulum. this claim is based on mass being held constant at 50 grams and pendulum length at 15 cm. 

	in the third trial we made the mass of the pendulum the independent variable. by looking at the graph titled “mass vs pendulum period”, we see that the mass on the x-axis had no affect on the period length on the y-axis. our claim holds true under a constant release angle of 30 degrees and a constant length of 15 cm. the error bars overlap, making it unreasonable to say the mass has any affect on the period of the pendulum. 

	the theoretical mathematical model of this . the data fits this model to 99.8 percent accuracy according to the  statistic. this model was found by making a power curve trend line in excel. the trend line fit inside all the error bars fit by half the standard deviation found in lab two at .078. this value was found by swinging the pendulum with all variables held constant and dividing the standard deviation of that data by two. in the theoretical model length is the only variable present because length is the only variable that had any affect on the period of the pendulum. considering mass and release angle was negligible, those factors did not play a part in finding this equation. the equation was based strictly off the length of the pendulum compared to the period of the pendulum. other groups equations show the same thing, for example group 2 showed the same no correlation with mass and release angle with respect to the period length. their experimental equation, , was a power curve trendline of the length of the pendulum compared to the period length. compared to our equation, , the numbers line up very closely and both  values are listed very closely with group 2’s equation fitting to .9999 and ours fitting to .998. along with that group 3’s experimental equation was found to be  with a fit of .998 to their data. needless to say every group found release angle and mas to be negligible along with an experimental model along the lines of 

	during this experiment we found a possibility of random error with the timing of the period. we were hand timing the period lengths causing the numbers to fluctuate depending on when the timer considered the top of the period to be. to reduce this, we could have used the laser timer given to us in later labs. the laser timer was precise to .001 seconds whereas hand times could be off by any given number which is why it is to be considered random error. 

	there were no constraints that held us to rush or otherwise make data insufficient while doing this experiment. there was plenty of time given to complete the experiment, enough lab resources, and trials were done under controlled conditions. when comparing our experimental model to the theoretical model, it is evident that trials were done accurately and precisely.