
conclusion:

the question that is being asked is, what affects the period of a pendulum. based on the 3 experiments that were conducted, it can be said that there are 2 things that can affect it. starting with the weight v. time test, there was no correlation to be found so we can assume that weight does not affect the period of the pendulum. with length v time there was an effect. as the length of the pendulum was increased, the time it took for the pendulum to swing once was increased. and angle v. time, we also see a correlation. as the angle at which the pendulum is dropped the time for it to swing once increases. based on the 3 experiments that were done, 2/3 experiments were proven right. length and angle can have an affect on the period of a pendulum. the mathematical model is found by conducting the experiments and comparing the results to see what affects the pendulum. as mentioned before, angle and length were found to affect the pendulum. both graphs 2 and 3 show increases in time as the lengths and angles were increased. weight did not have an impact on the pendulum. errors which could have occurred is bad timing. such as being off by decimal points. when the experiment was done with stopwatches, it was expected that there would be errors (human errors) since it can not always be accurate. using the photo gate, these time inconsistencies could be reduced or not occur at all. to prevent errors from occurring in future experiments, it is recommended to use proper equipment to gather data as doing it manually can result in human errors. perhaps an artificial setting in which the experiments are done will prevent outside influences from affecting the experiment. constraints that can affect the results of the data include, equipment not working properly, length of the string is not long enough or short enough, angle at which the pendulum is dropped may be off. making sure everything is done right is important because you are collecting data based on certain measurements and having wrong angles or lengths will result in data that is not consistent with what you are testing for.