discussion and conclusions

	the period of a pendulum can by affected in different ways by changing different independent variables. the length of string had the most affective data set found conducting the labs. of all three of the factors being length of string, weight of pendulum, and angle of release the only one that truly should affect the period of the pendulum is the length of the string. however, the data collected does show the three variables do affect the period of a pendulum even if it is a very slight difference. the graph for the length of the string shows a very nice linear regression as the length of the string increased. for the other two variables the two graphs show very minimal difference in the times for each period. these times are so minimal that it shows the only thing affecting the period of the pendulum would be errors made during the experiment. under perfect conditions where air resistance is controlled, and a photogate is used rather than a stopwatch to measure the period of the pendulum then the length of the string will be the only thing that affects the period.

	the theoretical mathematical model that my lab group came up with is expressed as $y=0.1 x + 1$.2 with and r^2 value of 1. this data is obtained from lab 03 and the linear graph created by the length of the string. by putting a line of best fit on that graph it perfectly goes through each point. however, the other two factors do not fit this model as they do not affect the period of a pendulum enough to create a mathematical model for the data.

	every experiment done in the world will include errors. the best thing to do is to minimize the errors as much as possible. there are two types of errors found in scientific experiments and they are systematic error and random error. there were plenty of systematic errors with trying to make sure every angle of release was the same and trying to stop the stop watch perfectly. we reduced the stop watch error by redoing the experiment for length of string by using a photogate instead of a stopwatch. this was much more accurate than trying to time up a stopwatch and take the average of a certain number of oscillations. in the future instead of trying to use a stopwatch from the start the photogate should be used for any other experiments that may require precise timing of an object.

	with a simple experiment being done without the best of the best materials in the perfect conditions it is impossible to get perfect results in an experiment like this. so, when dealing with constrains a lab group must do their best to try and work around the constraints and record the best data possible for an experiment. a major constraint at first was that we had to use stopwatches and find the period of a pendulum by hand eye coordination. this will always leave some chance of systematic or random error. as well as time constrains during each lab. because there is a time limit, we can not take a multitude of measurements for each experiment or when would have never finished the lab in the time allotted.