discussion and conclusion:

research question:

what factors affect the acceleration of a system?

for the independent variable applied force, the values of acceleration for different

values of hanging mass were measured whilst keeping the total mass of the system

constant.

 these values were entered into excel, and a plot of acceleration vs. applied force was

plotted along with the trendline.  the equation of the line that gave the greatest r 2 value was chosen. this equation

determined the mathematical model. in this case a linear trendline was chosen.

r2 for the plot of acceleration vs. applied force is 0.9
 the data was measured using the software datastudios. the scale error using this

setup is 0.001 m/s2. since, this is a very small value, the error bars were too small to be seen.

therefore, there is a positive correlation between the acceleration and the force due to

hanging mass. hence, force affects the acceleration of the system.

for the independent variable mass of the system, the values of acceleration for

different values of mass of the system were measured whilst keeping the hanging mass

constant. these values were again entered into excel, and a plot of acceleration vs. mass of the

system was plotted along with the trendline.

the equation of the line that gave the greatest r 2 value was chosen. this equation

determined the mathematical model. in this case a power trendline was chosen. r 2 for

the plot of acceleration vs. mass is 0.9 the data was measured using the software datastudios. the scale error using this

setup is 0.001 m/s2. since, this is a very small value, the error bars were too small to be

seen. therefore, there is a negative correlation between the acceleration and the force due to

hanging mass. hence, mass of the system affects the acceleration of the system.


the model shows a power relationship compared to the linear relationship according our model.

however, the slope is positive so as force increases acceleration increases which is in line with

our model. the slope of 3.0344 is very close to our model indicating a constant slope.

this model shows a power relationship with a negative power, therefore there is a negative

correlation. this is in line with our model. however, the constant 0.1302 is not very close to the

value according to our model. this discrepancy indicates error.

the model shows a power relationship compared to the linear relationship according our model.

however, the slope is positive so as force increases acceleration increases which is in line with

our model. the slope of 2.63 is very close to our model indicating a constant slope.

this model shows a power relationship with a negative power, therefore there is a negative

correlation. this is in line with our model. however, the constant 0.0144 is not very close to the

value according to our model. this discrepancy indicates error. this model supports newtons law in that as the force increases and mass m1 remains

constant acceleration increases.

no differences were discovered between our experimental model and newtons second law

($f=m a$ for acceleration vs applied force i.e both are linear.
this model supports newton’s second law in that the acceleration is negatively correlated to the mass of the system.

according to newton’s second law $\frac{f}{m}=a$ in accordance with this law, the system deceleratesas the mass becomes larger and larger.

unlike newton’s second law $\frac{f}{m}=a$(which is a linear relationship), our model for acceleration

vs. mass has a power relationship.
the constant can be attributed to the force exerted by additional factors such as tilt. to

analyze this, another experiment was conducted.

the force due to the weight of the hanging mass is the independent variable, the acceleration is

the dependent variable, and the mass of the system was the control variable.

if the string connecting the hanging mass is heavy, it will add to the force applied. this force would be the $c = m g$ and would be added to the equation is 

full automation of the experiment, without any human interaction would produce the best results. otherwise, this experimental setup was fairly simple which leave little room for

a possible cause of random error is the swing of the string connecting hanging mass. a possible improvement is to stabilize the hanging mass- ensuring that there is no swing to the hanging

mass that could disturb the measurement of the acceleration. a possible cause of systematic error is the added weight of the string. a nearly weightless string

should be used for this experiment. also, the system should have no tilt originally, and should be completely horizontal in the beginning for this particular the experiment.