conclusion:

the research question asked was, “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?” to test this question we had to figure out what could possibly be considered to change the period of  pendulum swing and had to test these variables.  the three variables found were the length of the string, the weight it was holding, and the angle at which it was dropped.  after testing each of these we claimed that the angle and weight did not change the period of the pendulum but the length did affect period of the pendulum.  our claim for the angle not changing the period of the pendulum is valid because we are testing for small swings, but if we were to test very massive swings there would be a slight change in the period of the pendulum.  as seen in figure one above is the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum.  it is shown that the string connected to bob is always taught and that the pendulum is a frictionless pivot.  if we were to make this into an equation it would include the length of the string, the acceleration due to gravity, and 2 pi because circular motion back and forth. the equation would look like 2pi times the square root of (length divided by gravity) equals the period of the pendulum.  as we can see here the length is the only factor that can change the period of the pendulum. the angle and the weight are not even factors of the pendulum because they do not change anything.  as seen on the graph for length that as the length increased so did the period of the pendulum, and if the length were to increase in that equation so would the period of the pendulum.  also, it is seen on  th graphs that in the angle and weight graphs the line is almost straight and that the numbers are very close while in the length graph the line is more diagonal because of the increase as the length increased.  from our first experiment where we dropped the string and timed it ourselves it gave us a lot of possibilities for random error.  there was the possibility of the timer not starting or stopping the watch on time, the person dropping the string may not have dropped it from exactly the same angle every time, and the person dropping the string may not have had it completely taught.  to reduce the error of the stopwatch we were able to use a sensor that would record the time of the period to an exact measurement leaving us only with the possible error being from the string not being taught or not being dropped from the same angle.  in the future we could make a system that keep the string completely taught and drops it from an exact angle chosen every time.  some of the constraints in this experiment that will generalize our results is that everybody was doing the same experiment in the room with the same amount of working room as us.  therefore there was only so many options for what angle and length and weight to drop the string at that the graphs may contain some of the same numbers.