discussion and conclusion:

	for these first three labs, we were trying to identify the variable that affects the pendulum of one swing. we tested three different independent variables, including length of rope, angle of release, and mass. we initially thought each variable would change the period of the pendulum and have a positive correlation. however, only length of rope affected the pendulum’s period. as the length of rope increased, the period also increased. this is what’s known as a positive correlation. this phenomenon can be seen in graphs 1, 4 , and 8. you can tell that the other variables had no effect on the period because they had no slop and thus no correlation. this is shown in graphs 2, 3, 6, and 7. even though the error bars overlap in these cases, it is perfectly reasonable to assume that they could very well have no slope and therefore have no correlation. the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=0.25 l^{0.5}$. our equation is slightly different because we used inches in our data and graphs, so our best fit line equation was 0.4062 * length (in.) ^ 0.4456. after checking the data with other groups who chose to use meters instead of inches, i found that it was similar. this lead me to believe that our final equation was correct. in addition, our r^2 value was very close to 1, meaning that our data nearly fit our best fit curve perfectly. all of this can be observed in graph 8. the other variables, like angle of release and mass, did not affect the period at all. this can be seen in graphs 2, 3, 6, and 7. the only error that jumped out to us was that in our first graph (graph 1), our data jumped significantly. due to the sudden spike in time, this was most likely a random error of human origin. going forwards, we learned that having more data points would lessen the impact of these anomalous data points. as far as systematic error goes, we first used a stopwatch and then progressed to a far more accurate machine which used a laser to accurately measure when the pendulum broke its laser. this takes out any error either based on the stopwatch itself or human reaction time. so our graphs increase in accuracy and precision over the span of the three labs.