Conclusion:
The period of the pendulum is not impacted by the mass at the end of the pendulum, this is because there is no correlation between mass and the period of a pendulum based off the Mass vs. Time graph. There is no correlation because as mass increases the period does not change. This is verified by the error bars because if you would put a horizontal line through one of the points, that line would go through at least the error bar range of all the other points on the graph
The period of the pendulum is not impacted by the angle of release, this is because there is no correlation between the angle of release and the period of a pendulum based off the Angle of Release vs. Time graph. There is no correlation because as angle of release increases the period does not change. This is verified by the error bars because if you would put a horizontal line through one of the points, that line would go through at least the error bar range of all the other points on the graph.
The period of the pendulum is directly impacted by the length of the string, this is because the period of the pendulum has a positive correlation when compared to the length of the string based on the slope of the Length vs. Time graph. From the graph there is a positive correlation between the length and the period because as you increase the length of the string the period increases as well. This is verified by the error bars, because they do not overlap. If you would put a horizontal line through one of the points it would not go through any other points and the range of their error bars.
The theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is     $T =2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{L}{g}}$      which is very close to our trendline which is $y =0.1814 x^{0.5222}$. Our mathematical model is very close to the theoretical model except that ours is in centimeters. The theoretical model can best be compared with our mathematical model when you substitute L with x and T with y and when there is only a coefficient in front of x to a power. To get this coefficient in centimeters we multiply 2 with pi and divide by the square root of 980 cm/s^2 (with g being 9.8m/s^2) which gives you .20071 in front of x^.5 which is very close to our coefficient of .1814 x^.5222. In the theoretical equation L which is the length of the string is directly related to the period T, which is the same in our mathematical model where x is directly related to y. Also, with the theoretical model you do not see variables for mass or angle of release which just proves our claims that mass and angle of release does not impact the period of the pendulum. Even though our model is very similar to the theoretical, they still differ a little which may be caused by air resistance and inaccurate measurements of the tested lengths. 