discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of lab 05 was to determine a mathematical model that accurately describes a real system. that is, the mathematical model determined in lab 05 can be used to predict the acceleration of the cart in situations with different hanging masses. the purpose of lab 06 was to determine the real-world factors that affect the numerical values in the mathematical models.

the three mathematical models were determined experimentally by attaining the equation for the best fit line of the graph. the first coefficient in the mathematical model could be the result of the force of gravity, seeing as how it remains a similar value in all three trials with the magnets. the second coefficient in the mathematical model could be the result of the frictional force or air resistance. the graphs show that when the magnets are place lower on the cart, the exponent is smaller, and the acceleration is lowered. our group used a power trend for the line of best fit, but a linear trend line was supposed to be used. due to this, our mathematical models differ from the expected models. the models should be of the form is  $a=c1 w+c2$

group 2’s findings seem to follow the same trends as our results. their mathematical model indicates that the position of the magnets does influence the acceleration of the system.

group 1’s findings differ from ours due to the fact they saw an effect on the y-intercept from the position of the magnets. this implies that numerical value would be attributed to something other than gravitational force since the gravitational force on earth is constant.

one random error present in this experiment could be the result of the force of the air flow from the hose. if one trial has a higher air flow than another trial, the cart would move over the track more easily, which could allow for a difference in acceleration. to reduce this error, a system could be used that does not involve the use of an air pump with unknown pressure. another random error could be the force applied to the cart when the experimenter is releasing the cart. to reduce this error, a release mechanism could be used that eliminates the chance of additional force to the cart.
one constraint of the experiment is the total weight that could be added to the hanging mass. a total of eight bobbers were available. hanging masses outside of this range are not necessarily represented by our mathematical models. the force of gravity is another constraint on the experiment. with a lower force of gravity, as would be the case on the moon, the hanging weight and the total weight of the system would be lower, which could influence the mathematical model.
our mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law. rearranging newton’s second law you get; $\frac{f}{m}=a$
with a constant mass, as force increases, acceleration must also increase. this aligns with the expected model of $a=c1 w+c2$. with constant mass, force c1 must increase for acceleration to increase.