conclusion and discussion

the goal of lab 5 was to identify what variables affected the acceleration of the sled, and how it was affected (linear or non-linear). during the first test we changed the force applied while the system mass stayed constant. this was done by using fishing bobbers as the change in force applied while the sled rest or moved on a frictionless air track. we track the acceleration by using a rotary motion detector, which plotted data point on a graph over a certain period of time. then we plotted a trendline using the graph provide by the system. in the line equation $y=b + mx$ m equaled the acceleration. the computer also gave us the sigma values which was the possible error in the rotary motion detector. in the graph figure 1 we found that when you increase the force applied on the sled the acceleration increased in a linear path. the slope of the line was 2.4033 and the r squared was 0.9794. the error bars in figure 1 was .001 and were too small to see on the graph. group 3 found that their graph also increases but had a smaller slope, which was .038. their line had a smaller r value, which was .9459. this means their line didn’t fit as well as ours did. this can be shown in photo 1. group 2 had a graph that also increased when they changed the force applied, but they had the smallest slope in their data, which was .0029. their r value was the best out of the all our groups, which was 1. this might not be right because all their values must fit on the trendline without error, so this r value probably can’t be used to compare the data.  this can be found on photo 2.
in the second test of lab 5 the experiment was basically set up the same, but we changed the systems mass instead of the force applied. the force applied stayed the same this time in this test. the data collected the same way as test one also. in figure 2 we graphed the change of acceleration when the mass of the system changed over a constant rate. we add a trendline to the graph and the line was not linear it was a power line that decrease when we changed the weight of the system. the line equation was $y=\frac{472.21}{x^{1.05}}$. the -1.05 is the exponential rate of decay, which means since it is negative it is decreasing exponentially. our r value was .9908, which is close to 1. we also had error bars, but they were .001 which is too same to see on the graph. group 3 also had a power graph, but their exponential rate of decay was different then ours. it was -0.985, but their graph was still decreasing, but their r value, which was .9972, was closer to 1 than us. this means their line was more accurate than ours was. this can be shown in photo 1. group 2 also had a power graph and their rate of decay was -1 which was smaller than ours, but it still was decreasing. their r value was 1, which is the best out of all of us. i don’t trust this value because this means none of the values have error and the line fits perfectly with their data point. this is shown in photo 2
in lab 6 we want to see if changing the angle of the track affected the acceleration of the sled. we had 3 different test each had different angle and 2 we incline and 1 was a decline. every test was setup like test 1 in lab 5 where we just change the applied force. the only thing that was different was each test was done at different angles. the first test was done at a .267-degree incline and we found that this decrease the acceleration from our finding in test 1 of lab 5. we made a graph, which is figure 3, that shows the acceleration vs. force applied. the trendline from this graph was $y=2.8534 x + 0.0664$ and this trendline was linear. the r value that we got was 0.9964. we had error bars, but it was so small that it can’t be seen on the graph. group 3 set their experiment like ours and they also found that the trendline was increasing linearly. their equation was $y=28.82 x - 0.134$ the had a much higher rate of change this us which just could just be random error, or they had different angles than us, but they didn’t display their r value so i cannot compare how well their line fit to ours. this is represented in photo 4. group 2 also set their test like ours but probably used different angles than us. they also found that their trendline was linear and increasing. their trendline equation was $y=3.0942 x - 0.0818$ which was larger than ours which means they probably used a different angle, or it was caused by random error. they did not display their r so i could not compare our 2 line and how well they fit the data. this is shown in photo 3.
in the 2nd test of lab 6 we setup the experiment up the same way, but at a .444-dgree angle. we found that the sled accelerated slow than the previous test and test 1 of lab 5. we made a graph, which is figure 4, that shows a linear increase in acceleration. the equation of our trendline was $y=2.7872 x - 0.0723$. our r value was 0.9977. we had error bars, but it was so small that it can’t be seen on the graph. group 3 set their experiment similar to ours and they also found that the trendline was increasing linearly. their equation was $y=27.68 x - 0.16$ the had a much higher rate of change this us which just could just be random error, or they had different angles than us, but they didn’t display their r value so i cannot compare how well their line fit to ours. this is represented in photo 4. group 2 also set their test similar to ours but probably used different angles than us. they also found that their trendline was linear and increasing. their trendline equation was $y=2.8977 x$, which was larger than ours which means they probably used a different angle, or it was caused by random error. they did not display their r so i could not compare our 2 line and how well they fit the data. this is shown in photo 3.
in the 3rd test of lab 6 it was setup the same way, but the track was declining at a -.444-degree angle. we found that the sled accelerated faster than any of our previous test. we made a graph, which is figure 5, that shows a linear increase in acceleration. the equation of the trendline was  $y=2.8213 x+0.0713$. our r value was .9997. we had error bars, but it was so small that it can’t be seen on the graph. group 3 set their experiment similar to ours and they also found that the trendline was increasing linearly. their equation was $y=28.704 x- 0.0695$ the had a much higher rate of change this us which just could just be random error, or they had different angles than us, but they didn’t display their r value so i cannot compare how well their line fit to ours. this is represented in photo 4. group 2 also set their test like ours but probably used different angles than us. they also found that their trendline was linear and increasing. their trendline equation was $y=3.1462 x-0.0986$, which was larger than ours which means they probably used a different angle, or it was caused by random error. they did not display their r so i could not compare our 2 line and how well they fit the data. this is shown in photo 3.
in conclusion any error that could be caused in these tests could be random because something the string would fall off the rotary motion detector. to prevent this in the future we could use a guide rail to keep the string on. also, it could be systematic because the program did give us sigma values that the data could be between. also, the majority of our predictions were correct besides our prediction in test 2 of lab 5 instead of a linear line it was a power linear which means it decrease exponentially. some constraints in these experiments were not doing more test with changing incline because you could probably see that rate of change in the acceleration between the graphs better.