discussion and conclusions:
within lab 5, students were able to develop mathematical models using data from various trials within experiments.  for lab 6,  students were able to look at the numerical values from the mathematical models gathered in lab 5.  the mathematical model for lab 5 was $y=0.0028 x - 0.0011$.  y is equal to the acceleration of the system while x is equal to the force applied to the system.  the mathematical model correlates to the graph displayed in figure 1 since there is a positive correlation.  as the force applied increased for each trial, (adding one bobber each time to the hanging string) the acceleration increased.  
in figure 2, a second mathematical model was developed from the data table.  this was found to be $y=131.62 x - 0.92$ where y is equal to the acceleration of the system and x is the mass of the system.  as seen in this figure, there is a negatively correlated exponential graph which directly relates to the mathematical model stated before.  as the mass of the system increased, the acceleration of the system decreased.
in lab 6, we were able to determine that the force applied and the acceleration of the system demonstrate a positive and linear relationship.  based on all the trials conducted, we could conclude that changing the friction of the system had no significant affect on the acceleration of the system.  the friction was increased by moving magnets from the top to the bottom and doing multiple trials where in the end, all the magnets were at the bottom of the system to create more friction on the air track.  the mathematical model for lab 6 concludes that as the force applied increased, the acceleration increases but friction did not impact it overall. 
in order to be confident in our data, we made sure to refer to other groups who conducted similar experiments.  it was determined that friction and the angle/tilt of the air track had no significant effect on the numerical values and therefore the mathematical models. 
systematic and random errors are common in all experiments.  random error occurred when using the scale to measure out the system weight by each student.  to avoid this, weighing can be done more carefully and can be taken multiple times in order to find the average weight.  an example of a systematic error would be when the system was on the air track.  sometimes, if the string was not straight, it can cause bumps in the data on the computer rather than a smooth increasing line.  improper attachments of the bobbers on the hanging system could have lead to undesirable results.  it is important to properly attach them to the string to avoid any errors.  another systematic error could be with the computer system, air track and balance.  students should calibrate each and make sure it is in working condition before conducting any trials.  

constraints on these labs include limitations of time and space.  if there was more space, we could lengthen the track in order to conduct longer trials.  if there were better and more accurate devices used to collect data, we could be more confident and precise with our results.  

both mathematical models stated previously remain consistent with newton’s second law ($f= m_{system} a$).  in $a = 0.0028 f-0.011$, the force applied, “f”, increased and the acceleration of the system, “a”, increased as well, similar to that of $f = m a$.  for the second model,  $a=131.62 m-0.924$ related to the mass and acceleration of a system.  as the mass increased, the acceleration decreased to maintain the total force of the system.  according to newton’s second law, $a =\frac{f}{m}$.