conclusion and discussion

			these three experiments were designed to determine what factors affected the period of a pendulum. the three factors were tested are is  the length of string, the angle of release and the mass of the bob. since all of these three factors can affect the period of pendulum, a model and three experiments were created to test them. three hypothesis and predictions were also provided to find out whether the time period would be affected by these three factors or not.

			for the independent variable is  the length of string, the hypothesis is that “the length of the string will affect the period of the swing”, and the prediction is “the time period will increase as the length of the string is increased”. based on the collected data and graph, it proved the period of pendulum was affected by the length of string and period was increasing as the increased length of string. although the error bars were too small to see, there is still an error within 0.001. also, the calculated equation is $y=1.0102092 x$ which is really closed to the theoretical equation is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}} = 2.007 l^{0.5}$. 

			for the independent variable is  the mass of bob, the hypothesis is that” the time period of a pendulum is affected by the amount of mass that is hanging from the string.” and the prediction is “as the mass of the pendulum increase, the period of the pendulum will increase.” all of these two were proven to be false since the time period didn’t change while the mass was increasing. based on the collected data, it was found that the period of pendulum remained the same within 0.075 difference. the graph of mass vs period indicates that mass of bob would not impact the period of pendulum. also, the error bar overlaps each other so that it’s claimed that the original hypothesis and prediction are false. 

			lastly, for the independent variable the angle of release, the hypothesis was “the angle will affect the period of the pendulum”, and the prediction is “the time period will decrease as the angle is smaller and increase as it grows”. similar to the second experiment, the prediction was proved to be false through the graph. all the points in the graph are within error bars, which shows there is no trend and the value of time period didn’t change with increasing angle of release. 

			both of systematic error and random error can occur in these experiments, and these errors are created by uncertainty level within the value. it was identified the most error that occurs are random error is  misreading the measurement, misaligned protractor, accidently applying a force and mistiming with stopwatch. these errors can be reduced instead of completely avoided. taking multiple measurements and taking an average. there is one constrain that human eyes can not perfectly see the measuring length. another constrain is the air resistance, and a perfect experiment would be performed in a vacuum where air resistance does not exist.