discussion and conclusion:

to find the research question asked: what impacts the length of the period with a pendulum? our group tested three variables, the length of the string, the mass of the pendulum, and the angle of release. our group conducted several tests for each variable with multiple trials for each test to compare the variable to the length of the period.


when string length was the independent variable, our group discovered that the trend for the length of the period was exponential. this was done by conducting the tests such that the mass of the pendulum and the angle of release remained constant. the correlation in the graph and data showed to be non-linear but rather an exponential relationship. this discovery can conclude that the string length is the only factor in the length of a period of a pendulum. graph and table 1 show that there is some positive correlation between the string length and the period of the pendulum. when using excel, we found the equation for the trendline to be $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{f_g}}$. when compared to other groups values as well, our equation matched up almost perfectly with theirs. once the experiment was done, we made our own power equation which was $t=0.85167106 l$.

when mass was the independent variable while length and angle of release were constraints, our group found that the relationship between the data was non-linear. the data displayed in the graphs for the mass confirms this claim as there is no correlation between the dependant and independent variables. therefor, it can be concluded that there is no correlation between the mass and the period of a pendulum.

angle of release-

when the angle of release was the independent variable while the string length and mass were constraints, our group found that the relationship between the data was no correlation between the variables. by testing multiple different angles and recording the data while the other variables remained constant (these were the constraints), the measured period time for the pendulum showed to all be very similar. the similarity in time with a linear relationship proved that the angle had nothing to do with effect it had on the period of the pendulum. the tables and graphs for the angle of release back up this claim showing the error bars where all the real data was still within the accepted value to claim that the angle of release had no influence on the period of the pendulum.

		there was a lot of error that could have and did occur during this lab. these errors included but are not limited to, equipment error, human error, or outside influences. the period of the pendulum could not be accurately measured using the stopwatch. this is due to the fact humans had to operate the stopwatch using judgement which also entailed reflexes. these two factors alone with humans mean that the period would have never been able to be accurately read with just a stopwatch due to the fact humans can’t be perfect. since this is a random error however, performing multiple trials for each test helped to eliminate any error by taking the average of the results. this method also applies to any other random error that might occur. by performing more trials and taking the average, the results can become more dependable.  however, to overcome the human error, our group used a photogate which was a lot more precise in its measurements for the period which gave much more reliable results that could be trusted and draw a plausible conclusion to the hypothesis. a systematic error that could have occurred is the scale that was being used wasn’t weighing the mass of the pendulum correctly. however, since this is systematic, which means this inconsistency was constant throughout all our tests, the skew in the results that might have occurred can be ruled out. this is due to the error occuring in every single test and never changed from trial to trial. another error that could have occurred was the string falling through the stand which would be a random error. this would increase the string length and the trials that had the string length as a constraint would be thrown off. this would produce unreliable results that shouldn’t be used due to the inconsistency.

		the constraints of this experiment include the string, the mass attached to the string, and the pendulum stand. the pendulum stand was noticed to not be completely sturdy and would have a slight bounce which would skew  the results by not letting the pendulum swing in a harmonic motion. another factor would be the mass not being accurate as displayed on the scale. this systematic constraint doesn’t really effect the period as much as say the pendulum not swinging in a straight line. this would cause the period to be skewed and not accurate from test to test.