conclusion:
the purpose of the lab was to first see how changing of mass on cart versus hanging mass, affected the acceleration of the cart. the second part of the lab was to see how different independent variables could affect the acceleration. lab 05 was designed to see what a “real system” was like and lab 06 was designed to see how an independent variable could affect the outcomes from a real system. our mathematical model from lab 05 was very similar to our mathematical models from lab 06 which tells us that negative slope did not affect the acceleration. the three experiments led us to our mathematical models by calculating the linear line and giving us an average of our overall data points. all experiments except the mass of cart versus acceleration, had similar averages which tells us that changing slope will not affect acceleration. the mass of cart versus acceleration had a lower average than the rest and showed us that when adding mass to the cart, acceleration will slow down. 



from the other two groups evidence, we could see that friction and a positive slope did affect the acceleration of the cart. their mathematical models were different from the mathematical model of the real system. this helped me understand that if an dependent variable is affected by the independent, then the mathematical model will not be the same as the mathematical model from the real system.

some systematic errors was delay of clicking at the exact point in the datastudio, not starting from zero when calculating slope, and making sure the mass of each bobble was equal. we couldn’t really prevent the delay of clicking but we could’ve weighed each bobble to help strengthen our data. random errors could’ve been that the cart was not fully on the track, clogged holes in the track, or not having a constant air pressure from the air machine. some further steps to prevent those errors could’ve been doing a test run before conducting our trials, seeing if every hole had air coming through, and having equipment to test the air pressure from the air machine. some constraints in this experiment could’ve been better equipment to help make our data more accurate and having a time constraint to make sure all of our constant variables were still the same. from this mathematical relationship, we can establish that as the force increases, so will the acceleration. we had a positive slope in our experimental model which also represents a positive correlation between the force and the acceleration of the system. as the hanging force increased, so did the acceleration of the system. according to newton’s second law, mass and acceleration are inversely related. from this mathematical relationship, we can establish that as the mass increases, the acceleration of the system will decrease. this is also true in our experimental model. we ended up getting a negative slope in our curve which represents a negative correlation between mass and acceleration.