discussion and conclusion 
	the purpose of the lab had two parts, first was to design and conduct controlled experiments to determine mathematical models from experimental data. to accomplish this, we developed the research question to investigate how the acceleration of a system changes when the distribution of mass changes. the purpose of the lab in the second part was to design and conduct controlled experiments to determine how aspects of the physical lab setting contribute to the mathematical models. to accomplish this, we developed the research question to investigate how the acceleration of a system changes when the angle of the air track changes.
	the mathematical model resulted from the experiment conducted in lab 05 was the equation $y=0.0441 x - 0.0711$. we found this equation using excel to analyze our data, and this is shown in figure 2. this equation in terms of the independent and variables is is  $a=0.0441 m^2-0.0711$. this shows that you multiply the mass of m2 by 0.0441 and then subtract 0.0711 to solve for the acceleration of the cart also known as m1. this shows that as the mass of m2 increases, the acceleration of the cart will increase in a linear fashion and as the mass of m2 decreases, the acceleration of m1 will also decrease. the constants in the equation are 0.0441 and 0.0711. the constant 0.0441 represents the acceleration per gram of mass hanging from the pully and the cart. the 0.0711 suggests a small error in the data, random error is to be expected and hard to avoid with such a small sample size. also from the mathematical model we found the r2 value to be 0.9847 (figure 2). this value is relatively close to one which means that the trend line fits the graph almost perfectly, representing a linear relationship of the data set. 
	the mathematical models resulted from the experiment conducted in lab 06 were the equations is  $y=0.0429 x-0.058$ with an r2 value of 0.9893 (figure 3),  $y=0.0437 x+0.0097$ with an r2 value of 0.9996 (figure 4), $y=0.0428 x+0.0683$ with an r2 value of 0.9996 (figure 5), and $y=0.0424 x+0.1097$ with an r2 value of 0.9995 (figure 6). we found these equations using excel to analyze the collected data. these mathematical models have the form $y= c1 f+c2$. acceleration is found by multiplying the mass of the system by the force applied and c2 represents the external force over mass of the system. the c2 values in our mathematical equations are small amounts of mass which were a systematic variable in the experiment.   
	group 3 also tested what happens if the air track is tilted forward, and they had a similar hypothesis as my group did (figure 7). their claims support the findings of our group because our data also showed that acceleration was affected by the force applied regardless of the tilt of the system. this increases confidence in the claims made. 
	group 2 tested what happens if friction to the cart is increased. the conclusion was that, “friction has little to no effects on the total acceleration of the system. as the force applied increases, the acceleration increases” (figure 8). although this group was testing something different than mine, their claims add to our understanding of the features of the lab setting that may impact the behavior of the system because it shows that friction had little to no effect on the acceleration, but as the force applied increases the acceleration also increases. it appears that force applied is the only factor investigated that has a significant impact on the behavior of the system. their independent variable, friction, had a larger impact on the numerical values as compared to our independent variable, tilt of the air track, but not by much. 

	both random and systematic errors might have been present when conducting these experiments. possible improvements to the experiment include having the rope attached to the cart and m2 not be knotted, which would affect the rate at which the rope can proceed through the pulley. another improvement would be to have the air track have an equal psi throughout the entire track. specific material flaws we experienced included the slabs of steel we used to elevate the system were not perfect in width on all sides. this could have affected the actual tilt we measured. in addition, the applied force to cause a net change of acceleration might have had its own acceleration as it started up, meaning the air-blower used may not have had a precise application of constant force. this are relatively simple material fixes that can be made to collect more accurate data. to improve this the incline changes could be steeper, or use consistent incline changes to more easily interpret and analyze data. 

	constraints that occurred during these experiments include human error, which is considered random error. time constraints were also apparent because of the certain amount of time we had in class, which limited the amount of trials performed. in the future, if more trials were completed more accurate and precise measurements would be obtained. 

newton’s second law is  and our equation from the first experimental mathematical model is $y=0.0441 x - 0.0711$ (figure 2). the mathematical model is consistent with newton’s second law because the 0.0441 is the average acceleration times the mass, which is determined through which value used for the mass each time. the 0.0711 is relatively close to zero, making it negligible. if we had more data and more accurate calculations, we could have something closer to representing newton’s law. newton’s second law can be rewritten as is   our experimental mathematical model equation from lab 06 has the general form $a=c1 f+c2$, which is consistent with newton’s second law. both equations contain force over mass written in different ways. by isolating each piece in the equation, they both can be written as (1/(mass of system))*force. the c2 in our equation is a small amount of mass which was a systematic error in the experiment.