conclusion:

in this lab our group investigated what factors influence the period of a pendulum. firstly, we explored how the length of the string would affect the pendulum’s period. we predicted that by elongating the string the period would also increase. to insure the results would be accurate the angle and weight were kept at 45 degrees and 20 grams respectfully. as seen in the the first graph, the time(period) of the pendulum increases with every growth of the length. secondly, we explored how the angle could affect the pendulum’s period. our group predicted that the angle would expand the length of time and thus the period. to stay consistent, the weight was kept at 20 grams and the length at 47.5 cm. however, as indicated by the second graph our hypothesis was wrong as the angle of release did not seem to cause any significant change in the period of the pendulum. lastly, we attempted to investigate whether or not the mass of the pendulum would have an effect on the period of the pendulum. our group hypothesized that a change in weight would result in a change in the period as with the previous tests we kept the other factors consistent, with the angle being 45 degrees and the length being 47.5 cm. our group was proven wrong, as indicated by the third graph which depicts little to no change in the overall period. our mathematical model was $y=0.1851 x^{0.5176}$. the data shows a semi-linear increase in the time taken to complete a period as the length of the string increased. if a theoretical model were to be created for the other factors (weight/angle) it could be theorized that it would be almost completely straight and linear as those factors do not impact the period. a possible source of error could’ve come from the time measurements for the graphs as they were done a stopwatch and human inconsistency could’ve affected those sets of data to reduce them. in the future the factors could’ve been timed with a photogate to eliminate the human factor in the timing. a constraint of this experiment is that it was performed in an area with little to no wind resistance which is unlikely in a more realistic setting.