discussion and conclusion

research question: how does the acceleration of the system change when the hanging mass changes?
the graphs show that once the hanging mass increases the acceleration also increases. we can trust this because the r value is .9999 which means the line has a great correlation with the data found. also the error bars are very small so you can see that the graphs have little to no error.
from this groups data we can see that they have some different data which can be used in many ways. we do not know what they did to get there equations but they could have been mistyping something or maybe they did not do a step right while recording the data. all of the slopes that our team has are close to 3 which is what the ta said to be correct. so from this we can see that our data refutes the other group’s data.
this group tested the friction of the air track and had these numbers for their mathematical model. the groups intercepts increase with each change in friction but not to the same extent that it changes for our model of the tilt. from this we can see that our data is somewhat similar but not exactly because they tested a different independent variable in the experiment.
the enhanced theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by more than one force is $y = 3 x$. all of our equations are very close to this by only having small y intercepts and a slightly different slope. so this model does support our data very well.
our prediction was as the weight on the string increases so does the acceleration because gravity has more of an effect on an object that is able to be pulled vertically. as the mass on the end increases there is more mass that is able to be pulled by gravity increasing the acceleration.
the random errors would be if you release the cart differently every time. if you start your cart at a different distance it could throw off your values. these can be accounted for by releasing your cart at the same distance for every trial.
the constraints of the experiment would be the “frictionless” track, the “frictionless” pulley, and air resistance. the track and pulley are not exactly frictionless which would cause the cart to move slower than predicted but not by much. also air resistance is very small but had an effect on how fast the cart was moving. with all of these factors slowing the car down we can expect our results to be slightly slower than expected