
discussion and conclusion: 
the question: “what variables might impact the length of a period of a pendulum?”, was answered through the completion of the procedure mentioned above and the analysis of the data that the procedure yielded. the procedure manipulated the variables (weight, string length, and angle of release) one at a time to produce data that would lead to a meaningful and valid conclusion. after analyzing the correlation and slopes of the yielded graphs, it can be said that the only tested independent variable that had an affect on the time length of the period was the length of the string. this conclusion coincides with our predictions. the slight correlation in the angle or release vs. period graph can be attributed to air resistance. we also concluded that the relationship could be mathematically represented as perio$d=0.2351 cm^{0.47} l$. the r^2 value for the power curve wa$s=0.9981$ which was the highest or the fitted curves, even though it was predicted and expected to be logarithmic. though the power curve has the highest r^2 value, the logarithmic curve also had a very high r^2 value. the obtained r^2 value is very high, meaning that the curve fits very well. the other factors that did not affect the period of the pendulum had an approximate slope of zero.



errors present in this test were almost all human related. someone who times periods or string lengths consistently shorter or consistently longer would be a source of systematic error. if these measurement errors are both above and below the actual values, the errors are random. error was greatly reduced in the final data recording session when a detection device was used to record the times as opposed to two humans with stop watches. if any error was present using the machine, it would likely be poorly calibrated and therefore systematically incorrect. other random or systematic errors could have still been present in measuring the string or releasing the pendulum. the only way to further reduce error would be to replace all human execution of the experiment and replace it with machinery for measuring/releasing. the experiment could also be conducted in a vacuum to eliminate air resistance. the very informal and not completely controlled conditions during the execution of the experiment would limit the generalization of the obtained results. to finally conclude, the length of the time of the period increases as the length of the string attached to the bob increases, which can be described mathematically by the equation perio$d=0.2351 cm^{0.47} l$.