discussion

the goal of this lab was to see how applied force had an affect on acceleration and establish relationships between the two factors. the initial hypothesis was that there is a direct relationship between applied force and acceleration. using multiple fishing bobs, the weight of the mass on a cart and the weight of the mass on a string (the applied force) were adjusted back and forth between the cart and end of the string in order to keep the mass of the system constant. this would effectively increase the force (mg) pulling on the cart while keeping the mass of the system constant. eight trials were performed, each with a different applied force. the results can be seen in table 1. then the applied forces and resulting accelerations were graphed (graph 1) and a line of best fit was calculated using excel. the best fit line equation was recorded on each graph in this report.. this equation relates the force applied and acceleration of the cart. the error bars are very small and do not overlap.  this means the data shows an increase where, as the applied course increases, the acceleration also increases. 

the results of the experiment were compared with another group. both groups found there to be a positive correlation between applied force and acceleration. both these results show graphs with positive correlations.

the lack of perfectly controlled conditions is why the theoretical model ($a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$) does not match the actual model ($a=c1 m+c2$). this may have led to a slight skew as forces other than the hanging weight are present. these could be the force of air resistance and the force of kinetic friction acting on the system. these would both act against the acceleration of the cart and cause it to display lower than its theoretical value. the y intercept would be zero in a system void of alternative factors and air resistance. other factors, such as string weight, and friction on the pully also caused small deviations from the theoretical.

systematic error could result from an improperly calculated triple-beam balance which would shift the mass values up or down. another is if the electronic equipment were calibrated incorrectly. random error could result from using a balance incorrectly or placing the cart at slightly different intervals each time it was released.

there are some factors that may limit the generalizability of the experiment. being that our experimental model did show the involvement of some air resistance or friction, it is questionable how well the experimental model would scale to other experiments with different amounts of friction or air resistance. the precision of the measuring tools also have an effect on the generalizability. with a better equipment, a more accurate model may have been reached.