discussion and conclusion



what impacts the period of a pendulum?

in the first experiment outlined in table 1, the length of the string was the independent variable while the period of the pendulum was the dependent variable. this experiment tested the effect the length of the string had on the period of the pendulum, which directly addressed the research question also found in table 1. the data collected from this experiment tells us the length of the string directly effects the period of the pendulum. the longer the length of the string gets the longer the period of the pendulum becomes. these results are outlined in table 2 and visually in image 1. you can see in image 1, the error bars for the data points do not overlap meaning there is a clear positive correlation to the graph. 	
in the second experiment outlined in table 3, the mass at the end of the string was the independent variable and the period of the pendulum was the dependent variable. this left the length of the string and the angle of release control variables. as outlined in table 3, this experiment directly addressed whether or not the mass at the end of the string has any effect on the period of the pendulum. as seen in table 4 and image 2, the mass at the end of the string has no effect on the period of the pendulum. this is proven by the observation that the error bars in the graph in image 2 overlap, meaning the data points theoretically could be the exact same value and therefor are not affected by the pendulum mass.
the third experiment performed had the angle of release as the independent variable and the length of the string and mass of the pendulum as control variables while the period of the pendulum remained the dependent variable as outlined in table 5. the experiment directly addressed the research question. the claim which can be found in table 5 was that the angle of release would have no significant effect on the period of the pendulum. the results documented in table 6 & image 3 show this claim to be accurate within the parameters of 40-60 degrees. in image 3 the graph demonstrates the error bars for the data points overlap, thus proving the angle of release between 40 and 60 degrees has no effect on the period of the pendulum. 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is, the length of the string effects the period in accordance with the equation $t=2.0143 l^{0.49}$ where “t” is the period in (s) and “l” is the length of the string in (m). the angle of release effects the period of the pendulum only when the angles are greater than 20 degrees. the mass of the pendulum and angles less than 20 degrees have no effect on the period.

the random errors associated with the experiment were caused by the human error while using the stopwatch. it’s impossible to perfectly time the pendulum period with the naked eye and human reflexes, so there was a random error associated with the data in tables 2, 4, & 6. what was done to reduce these errors was to use three stopwatches and then average the number between the three. this helped because the only way to reduce random error is to compile more data and take the average. to eliminate the random error in the experiment all together a photogate was used which was able to record exact times of the pendulum period. 

constraints of the experiment were mainly the scale the experiment was restricted to. it would have been better if the ranges of length of the string and pendulum weight were larger. the results for the effect the pendulum weight and length of string have on the average period are only true for a fairly small window of values as seen in tables 2 & 4.