discussion:

the research question that was being investigated was ‘what impacts the period of a pendulum’.

to figure out what impacts the period of a pendulum, the three variables had to be noted. those variables are length, mass, and angle. after the experiment was run for each variable, the results show that between those variables, only the length influences the period. this is known because by looking at the graphs above, they both would have a flat line going through all the data points. this means that there is no correlation between the two variables and the period of a pendulum. as for length, there is a correlation between the two. this is known because the slope of the graph is greater than zero. therefore, the claim of ‘the longer the string, the greater the period’ can be made. all these claims are valid under the constant acceleration of gravity. 

the mathematical model for a period of pendulum should be $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. this makes sense because the length of the only factor that affects the period. the mass and angle are not even stated in the equation. when the experiment was run, however, this was not the result that was received. the result received was bigger by a factor of pi. two trials were run because after receiving the first result, it was thought there was random error introduced because of how far off the result was, 6.4151. after running a second trial, nearly the same exact result was recovered, 6.3349. it was then concluded that this was a form of systematic error. even thought that the coefficient was bigger by a factor of pi, the r value on the graph is 0.9999. therefore, it can be said that both sets of data are extremely accurate. 

both random error and systematic error were involved in this experiment. to reduce the random error, more data points were taken, and the pendulum was left to swing after the data point was received. to reduce systematic error, the equipment being used should be calibrated properly and the data received should be changed to offset the error. 

the only constraints that were present in this experiment were the lab equipment being used, and the amount of time allowed to complete each lab. in order to receive the most accurate set of data, only the best equipment should be used, and that equipment should also be correctly calibrated to remove the factor of systematic error. as for time, if time was given, that would have enabled the group to take more time gather more accurate data results instead of rushing through to finish the experiment within the allotted time frame. this would have given the group a better chance at eliminating random error.