discussion and conclusion

the purpose of the lab was to discover if applied force influences the acceleration of an object. the data collected in lab 05, as seen in figure 1.1 and 1.2, yielded the following mathematical equation is  $a = 22.2 f_{hanging} + 10$. this mathematical model shows that, as the force applied to the cart increased, the acceleration increased it must be noted, and will be discussed further in the error description, that this equation represents a linear model of the graph, as this was what was observed at the time. this experiment should have utilized a power function instead. additionally, the data collected in lab 05, as seen in figure 2.1 and 2.2, yielded the following mathematical equation is  $a = (-2.1^{-3}) m +1.79$. this model shows that as mass(m) of the cart increases, the acceleration of the cart decreases. in lab 06, three different mathematical models were created to show the relationship between varying amounts of magnets. for no magnets, this equation was found to be 2.88(fa)-0.0275. for two magnets, the equation was found to be 2.24(fa)-0.0388. for four magnets, the equation was found to be 1.89(fa)-0.0395. in general conclusion from these mathematical models, it was found that, as the number of magnets attached to the cart increased, the acceleration would decrease. 

it can be observed that our data aligns well with other groups’ data for lab06. the data observed further helps in understanding that as frictional force increased, the acceleration of the system decreased. 

random errors and systematic errors both played part in this experiment. on of the biggest errors made in the lab was by using a linear equation in lab 05. in figure 1.2, it can be observed that there is nearly a straight line of best fit between the values, and it was collectively decided that the graph was meant to be linear. in reality, the line should not have been straight, and should have in fact been a power function. a large part of error also resulted from friction in the wire, where sometimes the wire would rub against a metal restraining plate meant to keep the wire in place. another source of error could be the result of an unevenly distributed weight on the cart, which could have caused the cart to touch the metal track when it shouldn’t. two major systematic errors could have been a part of the experiment. first, the acceleration monitor could have been inaccurate through the course of the experiment, which would have offset all values. second, there could have been an uneven distribution of air to the “frictionless” track, since the source of air flow was at one end of the track. additionally, several constraints existed in the experiments which could limit the generalizability of the experiment. for instance, the wire used could have been ductile in nature, which would affect results. also, the wheel used to measure acceleration has an uncontrollable amount of friction in the mechanical components. to truly monitor the acceleration of the system without any effect by friction, other means would need to be utilized. lastly, the mathematical models appear to relate to newton’s second law. all of the functions are in the same form of $f=m a$, with the first part of lab 05 in the form of $a=\frac{f}{m}$. the second mathematical model shows the exponential form of the function, which is incorrect, and should relate to the first part of lab 05 if done correctly. additionally, the equations derived from lab 06 relate to the same equation.