discussion and conclusion

the main goals of labs 5 and 6 were to develop mathematical models to describe a behavior in a real system as well as understanding what each variable represents and what the numerical values in the models mean.

the first experiment was the test for whether the force of the weighted bob influenced the acceleration of the cart. we tested the air track in a way that allowed us to know the force that was applied by the weight, allowing us to gather the data of a known force and find its average acceleration over the time interval. this led us to alter newton’s second force law model to fit what we knew, $f=m a$. the tested values were then put into data table 1, and a graph was made to find the trendline of the found values. our final model for the first test gave us $y= 2.8171 x - 0.0141$, where y is the acceleration of the system and x is the force of the weight as seen in graph 1. 

the second experiment was the test on the effect of mass on the acceleration of the system. the cart and weights were altered so that the bobs were only attached to the weight and extra weights were added to the cart to give it more mass. we were able to keep the force constant by keeping the weight constant, the values can be seen in data table 2. our final model was $y = 0.2604 x-0.697$, where x equals mass of the system and y is the acceleration as seen in graph 2. when newton’s second force law is altered to solve for acceleration it would make sense that the x value would be to a negative power because it is being divided over. 

the final experiment we tested was altering the “tilt” of the system. the tilt was done by putting thin metal tiles under a designated end of the track so to test outside influences on the acceleration. we marked the negative tilt as lifting the end with a pully, the positive tilt was done when the end opposite of the pully was lifted. the resulting data is stored in data table 3. all the models attained this way followed the same template $a = c1 f + c2$ where c2 was the total influence of the surroundings on the system in newtons. all the graphs are found in graphs 3-6.

there was minimal room for error within our experiments we only really could have encountered error in our distance from the pully. the distance from the pully was measured out each trial to ensure that the distance was consistent, there was also a way to measure the distance on the air track that measured in millimeters allowing us to be within .001 meter for each trial. 

both models found are directly derived from newtons second force law equation within just one step. for the model found in experiment 1 (related directly to the data in graph 1, and data table 1), we tested different force values while the mass of the system was conserved. this led us to a final model of where the acceleration was alone on one side while the mass was divided on the other side. for the second experiment we knew the net force on the system and the mass was being tested so we knew that the model would end up with the mass being to a negative power, as is a number that it in the denominator of an equation.


the data collected shows all the models gained from testing the tilt of the track. we are labeled as group 5 in data table 4. for the first test with 0 tilt, our model is closest to group 6 because our coefficient values are the same, however the intercepts were not very similar. the intercept is the influence of outside forces on the system, this means that the air track could be less effective for one group than another. this would explain the values of each groups intercept at 0 tilt. comparing our groups values to group 3’s values there are a couple similar trends. one of these is the intercept during tilt 2, where the influence is only in the hundreds place while group 6 had an influence of .1228 for their front-end tilt. the back-end tilt models vary based on the group, we had a positive influence on our data while the other groups showed a negative influence in both the tens and hundreds decimal place. data table 4 shows just how much outside forces influence the data collected.