conclusion:

	in conclusion, my group’s hypothesis was partially supported by the data. the research question that we asked was, “what impacts the period of a pendulum?” the three factors that we tested in our labs were the length of the string on the pendulum, the mass of the pendulum, and the angle in which the pendulum was released. the factors were divided into three separate tests to determine which factor actually impacted the period. we did this by controlling two of the factors as controlled variables, while using the other factor as the independent variable. this process was completed three separate times to determine if the dependent variable, which was the period of the pendulum, changed or not. my group’s claim was that increasing both length and mass of the pendulum would increase its period, while the angle in which the pendulum was released would not change the period at all. the claim that angle of release did not affect the period was correct. this is because by looking at graphs 1 and 2 for angle vs. time, the data plots are in a horizontal and line, meaning that the period (dependent variable) did not change as the angle (independent variable) changed. additionally, we were correct that length does affect the period of a pendulum. the data that we plotted for graphs 1, 2, and 3 for length vs. time was linear with a constant, positive slope. this means that as length of a period increases, the time does as well. however, the claim that mass would affect the period of a pendulum was incorrect. this is because graphs 1 and 2 for mass vs. time showed points that were in a horizontal line. this means that as mass increased, the period did not. 

	the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is$t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. if l is 1 and this equation is calculated, the value comes out to be 2.007. additionally, our group came up with a mathematical model that was 2.008x^.5128 with a r^2 value of .9971. this mathematical model was found by plotting our data on excel and changing the graph to a power curve. this mathematical model is quite accurate because our c-value is very close to 2, our p-value is close to .5, and our r^2 value is nearly 1. having a r^2 value close to 1 is important because it means that our trendline is extremely accurate. this trendline only is applicable to the graph of length vs. time, however. that is because the data plots for length vs. time were the only ones that followed a positive slope. the graphs for mass vs. time and angle vs. time were both horizontal and therefore, would not have the same mathematical model for a trendline. also, we noticed that the error bars were far greater for mass and angle vs. time than length vs. time. when comparing my group’s results to other group’s results, the findings were nearly identical. the equation for the trendlines were almost the same, as well as the r^2 values. this made me more confident in my group’s work.

	in completing this lab, my group noticed several random errors, but not as many systematic errors. some examples of random errors that we noticed were that the timekeeper was inaccurate while recording with the stopwatch, as well as not accurately measuring the length of the string. an example of a systematic error that we noticed was an inaccurate measurement from the scale while finding mass. my group was able to fix these errors as the experiment carried on, so our final data is quite accurate. to fix the problem of inaccurate time recordings, we used a photogate instead of a stopwatch. the photogate was much more accurate because of how much smaller the standard deviation was once we plotted the data. once we used a photogate to measure time, our error bars on the excel graphs were much smaller. to also improve the accuracy of the time, we allowed the pendulum to swing more than three times. doing this allowed for a more accurate time because as it swings more times, the more accurate the time will be. to fix the problem with inaccurate length of string, we used all four group members, as opposed to just one that measured the length. having four people measure instead of one decreases the chance that a mistake would be made. and finally, to fix the systematic error of recording mass, we made sure to calibrate the scale each time before placing the mass on it. this part really did not matter because mass has no effect on the period of a pendulum.

	some constraints that we faced in this lab were that the range of lengths that we could use were not great enough, and that the photogate was only used to measure length vs. time. once we figured out that only length affected the period, we spent most of our time testing that. however, the table in which we were swinging the pendulum from was not tall, so we couldn’t have our lengths be too high. to have all of the lengths fit, we had to increase the length by 5 cm each time. if we were to increase this increment by 20 or even 10, it would cause our data to be more accurate. additionally, if we were to use a photogate for all three labs, it would have been less time-consuming and more accurate for all three factors. however, my group was still able to accurately support the claim that length affects the period of a pendulum. in this lab, i learned how to fix systematic/random errors, choose a correct trendline for a data plot, and how to create and examine error bars on a graph. this gives me a strong background to complete further experiments in this course.