conclusion:
The mass of the pendulum bob does not affect the period of the pendulum. The length of the string and the angle of release both have an impact on the period of the pendulum. As the length of the string is increased, the period of the pendulum increases. This holds true when the angle of release is held constant. As the angle of release is increased, the period of the pendulum also increases. This holds true when the length of the string is held constant. The angle of release has an exponential trend while the length of the string has a power relationship. 

The confidence in the measurements made is relatively high due to both the photosensor and the tape measurer being very precise measurement tools. This causes the standard error for each to be rather small. The tape measurer has a 0.005 m standard error, and the electronic photogate has a 0.001 sec standard error. Due to these small deviations, we can be confident that the average values collected lie somewhere very close to the true value of the periods for both varying length of string as well as angle of release. The models were created by averaging the trials for each value of the independent variable and creating a scatterplot of each average. Next, a power regression was incorporated into the length of the string vs the period of the pendulum graph and an exponential regression was incorporated into the angle of release vs the period of the pendulum graph. This led us to the general conclusion that as the length of the string increases, the period of the pendulum increases with a power regression. And as the angle of release increases, the period of the pendulum increases with an exponential relationship. The specific regression lines and functions were chosen because they had strong r2 values. The r2 value for the length of the string graph was 0.9949, and the r2 value for the angle of release graph was 0.9674. Due to this value being very close to 1, it had the strongest fit to our data and could best predict period values for other lengths or angles of release. 
Based on the data from other groups in our class, we could feel more confident in our answers. This is because their equations for their graphs were extremely similar to our own best fit line which increases our confidence in our answers. The groups also had a general conclusion that 1) as the length of the string increases, the period of the pendulum increases, 2) as the angle of release increases, the period of the pendulum increases, and 3) the mass does not affect the period of the pendulum.  
It is expected that less gravitational pull would increase the time in which the period is performed. Less gravitational force causes the pendulum bob to accelerate and decelerate as slower rates causing the pendulum to move slower and therefore take more time.
The equation for how long it takes a pendulum to complete a period proportional to the length of arm and gravity $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$
The prediction that the time would increase makes sense given the theoretical formula. As gravity decreases, the denominator with which the length of the pendulum arm is divided by is smaller, so the overall value for L/G is greater. This signifies that the value would be greater, in terms of time and therefore the period is longer.
The calculated mathematical model for the period vs length graph was $T= 2.0902 L^{0.4197}$. Some differences between the theoretical model and the mathematical one is that the theoretical is only comprised of variables. Our model was created using data collected, which replaces the 2π coefficient that precedes the variable. The mathematical model created does not account for gravity because gravity was held constant throughout. The theoretical model might attempt to predict the time on other planets that have different gravities. Since the mathematical model predicted the period on earth for any length of string, it is not included in the model.
The coefficient for the theoretical model was 2π. The mathematical model had a coefficient of 2.0902. Due to the arc of a pendulum swing being circular in shape, it is represented in terms of pi, since one revolution is 2π. The forward and backwards motion of one period forms a circle when released at the maximum travel distance. The calculated value of 2.0902 is very close to the theoretical value of 2.00. Our model does not incorporate π due to the angle of release being negligible in the calculations.
 Air resistance could affect the period of a pendulum over time. We observed that when the pendulum was left swinging for multiple periods, the time per period slowly increased. This meant that the air resistance might take some force away from the swinging arm, and decrease the momentum with which the pendulum would swing. This could be tested by letting the pendulum arm perform multiple swings, for instance 10 periods, and measure the change in time from period 1 to period 10. Perform multiple trials, calculate an average, and determine whether a noticable difference exists due to air resistance.
Another possible influence could be the condition of the pendulum arm, which was made of string. Towards the third lab, the string was heavily frayed and not in as good of condition as the first lab. There is perhaps a correlation between the quality of the pendulum arm and its period. A way to test this would to have the same mass, angle of release, and length of arm. Have one new length of string and once that is worn. Depending on whether the average calculated period is outside the standard error, this wear may or may not be concluded to influence a pendulum’s period.
To improve the collected data, each length and angle could have been tested more times, and more lengths and angles could be tested. By having more trials for each length and angle, random errors would be reduced. If a greater variety of lengths and angles were tested, the graph would show a stronger trend because it would have more data and be more accurate. Others ways to improve the collected data include, making sure there is no force when releasing the pendulum, having multiple people check the angle of release before it is released, and using new materials free from wear and tear. 
 Theoretical mathematical model is  
$t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$  so T is 1.419 seconds
Value on graph $T = 2.0702 L^{0.4197}$ so t is 1.547 seconds
The period of the pendulum using the mathematical model with a pendulum of length 0.50 m is 1.419 seconds. The experimental value from the graph is 1.548 seconds. These two values are very similar, being only 0.1 seconds apart. 
    f. Hypothetical Scenario is 
$t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ so L is 6.206 m                                                         
    The length of the pendulum string should be 6.206 meters long to make the period 5 seconds. The mass of the bob does not have an effect on the period, so it does not matter what it is. 

