discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of lab 05 was to develop a mathematical model that describes the behavior of a system and the purpose of lab 06 was to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value included in the model. lab 05 investigated the affect of applied force and mass of the system. the first resulting mathematical model of lab 5 was determined using figure 1. the mathematical model was $y=0.0028 x - 0.01$ where y is the acceleration of the system and x is the force applied. the graph shows a positively correlated linear relationship corresponding to the mathematical model. the force was increased in each trial by moving a fishing bobber from the cart and adding the bobber to the hanging object. the mathematical model displays that as the mass of the hanging object, applied force, increased, the acceleration of the system increased as well.

	the second experiment in lab 05 investigated changing the mass of the system. the mathematical model for this experiment is determined in figure 2. the mathematical model was $y=\frac{131.62}{x^{0.92}}$ where y is the acceleration of the system and x is the mass of the system. the graph shows a negatively correlated power graph corresponding to the mathematical model. the mass of the system was altered by adding slotted weights to the system. the mathematical model shows that as the mass of the system increases, the acceleration decreases to a limited point.

	the third experiment was performed in lab 6 to determine the effects of friction. this was done by altering the friction of the system with magnets while keeping mass constant. this experiment is displayed in figures 3, 4, and 5 and determined that the force and acceleration have a positive, linear correlation to one another. although, it was determined that friction has little to no effect on the acceleration of the system making its effects on the system negligible. friction of the system was altered by adding magnets from the top of the cart to the bottom as to keep the mass of the system constant but allow the magnets to add friction as they are on the bottom portion of the cart. the mathematical model still demonstrates that as force applied increases, the acceleration of the system increases, and friction did not significantly impact these numerical values.

	the data collected by two other class groups in figures 6 and 7 confirms the findings from our experiment. this data determines friction and tilt had no significant effect on the numerical values of the mathematical models. the values of the mathematical models were relatively similar even though the variables tested were different. the result is that mass of the system and force applied are the main factors involved in determining the acceleration of the system.

	there were errors involved in the experiments. random error is the main errors that resulted from these experiments. this includes measurements by students on the scale which can be avoided by taking extra caution when making the measurement and measuring more than once. there are also errors in retrieving the data from the measurement device on the computer program. to avoid this, one person should be allocated to the job of working the computer program to build familiarity and increase accuracy. there could also be more than one trial of the value being tested to ensure the accuracy of the initial measurement. possible systematic errors include error in the air track, balance, and computer program that recorded data from the trials. this can be alleviated by proper calibration.

	constraints that may limit the generalizability of the results include time and space. the time restriction was two days and two hours of lab time each day which limited the number of trials able to be run and the quality and accuracy of those trials, increasing generalizability. the space restriction may have increased generalizability by lengthening the track to conduct longer trials. measurement may have also increased generalizability as precision and accuracy could be improved using better measuring devices.

	the mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law ($f= m a$). the first mathematical model was $a=0.0028 f-0.011$ relating force applied directly to acceleration of the system. this model displays that as mass is kept constant and the applied force, f, increases, the acceleration, a, increases as well. this is directly relatable to the second law formula $f=m a$. the second mathematical model was $a=131.62 m^{-0.924}$ relating force applied directly to acceleration of the system. this mathematical model displays that as mass of the system increased, the acceleration decreased to maintain a constant total force of the system since in a rearrangement of newton’s second law equation $a=\frac{f}{m}$