conclusion:
In recap, we investigated what would affect the period of a pendulum by testing three different variables, the mass of the pendulum, the length of string for the pendulum, and then the release angle. 
In our first experiment we looked at the basics and were trying to investigate and make broad observations. Looking at graphs 1aa, 1ab, and 1ac, it would be tough to specifically say that one variable affected it over another, if not all variables would affect the period. But when you take the error into account, it makes the data significantly incorrect, meaning we need to do another experiment with better calculations. In the second experiment we could conclude after looking at graphs 2a, 2b, and 2c that the only variable that did affect the period of the pendulum is in fact the length of string, but our units for the data were wrong. So we then did a third experiment specifically looking at the length of string and changing it to units that matched the mathematical model for the period of a pendulum, we were able through table 3aa, and graph 3a and then finally confirmed by the equation of the best fit line that it was in fact the length of string that affected the period of a pendulum. 
The theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is          $y=1.99 x^{0.5}$            where y is the time in seconds  and x is the length of the string in meters. When we apply a best fit line on our data points and then make an equation from them, it is         $y=2^{0.43}$              which is significantly close. When we take all the factor into consideration, the first experiment there were far too many errors for us to come up with an accurate equation. Then in the second experiment, we got more accurate results, but they weren’t in the correct units. Finally, we got everything in the right units and eliminated the errors throughout the experiments to have an accurate claim that the period does in fact affect the period of a pendulum. 
The big systematic and random errors in this experiment were significantly reduced as we progressed through the experiment. In the first experiment we didn’t quite know what we were doing, and that didn’t make it any easier to do the experiment, but as we got into the second experiment with an online simulation, it made for accurate data, and then finally in the third experiment, with a laser timer of .001 error, it made for some very accurate data to take on our own in the lab. 
The biggest constraints in this lab would have to be my partners, they didn’t understand what we were doing, and how to take the data and plot it, so I think as accurate as the data seems to be, I think there could have been some serious human error that affected it.  
