discussion

    the objective of this experiment was to develop mathematical models that represent the behavior of a real system and then see how a physical change in the set up would affect this behavior and original mathematical models. in order to do this, three experiments were conducted. in the first experiment (table 1), different magnitudes of force were applied to a sled on a frictionless surface, and it’s resulting acceleration was measured. from the data gathered (table 3), a graph was constructed (figure 1), and a linear trendline was applied to the data. the equation of this line gave us the mathematical model $y=0.1331 x + 0.0191$. in this model, y represents the acceleration of the sled, while x represents the applied force to the sled. the value 0.1331 represents the relationship between x and y, showing how y will change when x changes. the value 0.0191 represents the effect of other forces acting on the sled, besides the applied force. in the second experiment (table 2) different masses were placed on the sled, with a constant applied force, and still on a frictionless surface. from the data gathered (table 4), a graph was made (figure 2) and a power trendline was applied to the data. the equation of this mathematical model was $y =115711 x^{-2.076}$ . in this model, y again represents the acceleration of the sled, while x represents the mass of the sled. the value   represents the relationship between the mass of the sled and its acceleration. it is raised to a power because of the theoretical equation. in the last experiment, we increased the angle of the surface which the sled was accelerating on, while applying different magnitudes of force to the sled, and measured the acceleration. from the data gathered (table 6), a graph was constructed (figure 4), and a linear trendline was fitted on the graph. the equation of the line was $y = 0.0028 x - 0.0881$. when this model is compared with the mathematical model of the applied force when there was no incline, the numerical value representing the relationship between applied force and acceleration decreased, meaning at an angle, applied force has a lessened effect on the acceleration. also, the numerical value -0.0881 is negative unlike the original model, and is a larger value, suggesting other forces are acting on the sled in the opposite direction as the applied force. this makes sense because when the surface is at an angle, gravity is also acting on the sled in the x direction, opposite to the applied force. 

group five investigated the same physical change of angle, as discussed above. however, our hypothesis and mathematical models are differing because of the placement of the incline. my group tested an incline in the same direction as the applied force, while group five tested an incline in the opposite direction as the applied force. the difference in physical set up accounts for these differences and helps deepen the understanding of the affect an incline has on the acceleration. group five had larger numerical values because in their set up, the applied force would have a greater effect on the acceleration and the other forces acting the sled would be in the same direction as the applied force and acceleration. this made their values positive and greater. 
group two investigated the presence of friction and what impact it has on the mathematical model of mass and acceleration. the model when friction is present (pictured above), compared to when the surface was frictionless (figure 2), has a similar power because the relationship between mass and acceleration has not changed. however, group two’s model has a significantly smaller x coefficient. it makes sense that this would be smaller because the force of friction is decreasing the acceleration greatly, unlike in the original experiment where there was no friction. 
the theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system is given as, $a =\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$ . when examining this equation in comparison to the experimental model $a = c1 w + c2$, it further supports the theoretical equation. the variable w represents the independent variable being measured in our experiment, when applied force was being measured, it was represented as w, and mass was held constant, making a set value, represented in c1. the theoretical equation also explains why the mass of the system is represented by a power model and raised to a negative power, because it is in the denominator of this equation, with respect to acceleration. an enhanced theoretical equation modeling the acceleration of a system, with external forces acting on it can be given as, $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$ this can also be expressed as, $f_{net} = m a$, newton’s second law. this enhanced theoretical equation is further supported by experiment three, when external forces were placed on the system. in the original experiment (table 1), there were no external forces acting opposite to the motion of the sled, which resulted in a positive c2, or fext/msys in the theoretical equation. the outcome of the external forces, acting opposite to the motion of the sled, when present resulted in a mathematical model that had a negative c2, representing fext/msys in the theoretical equation. 

    if the experiments were repeated identically, with the exception of having a heavy string connect the hanging weight, i predict that the numerical values of the mathematical model of applied force and acceleration would increase because more force is being applied to the sled from the increased weight of the string. 

    some possible sources of error in these experiments would be mainly systematic, such as not keeping the initial position of the sled constant and not placing the sled back at the exact same measurement each trial. to improve this experiment and decrease possibility of this error, careful attention to repeating trials identical should be used in the future. another example of a systematic error would possibly be it the surface which the sled was on was not originally at a zero degree angle. if not, this would decrease the numerical values in the mathematical model, but not affect the trend of the iv and dv. one constraint present in this experiment is the ability to completely eliminate friction. in experiment one and two, external forces are meant to be eliminated. this is done by using an air track to create a frictionless surface, however eliminating 100% of friction is nearly impossible and could have impacted the resulting model. another constraint was the limited size of the inclines measured in experiment three. perhaps if a larger variation in angles measured were used, the mathematical model produced would have differing relation with acceleration. more variation in incline size would also increase the confidence of the results.