conclusion:


	the point of this experiment was to investigate what affects the period, or single swing, of a pendulum is  the angle of release, the mass of the bob, or the length of the string?

	for the first experiment, pendulum period vs. angle of release, our claim was that when the angle of release (iv) increased, so would the time for the period (dv). our constant variables include the mass of the bob (250 g) and the length of the string (64 cm). after testing five different angles (as seen on data table 1), our times vary with a calculated standard deviation of 0.11. looking at graph 1, there is no apparent slope and the error bars are long. we can conclude from this that our claim was wrong and the angle of release does not affect the period of a pendulum and there is no relationship present.

	for the second experiment, pendulum period vs. mass of bob, our claim was that when the mass of the bob (iv) increased, so would the time for the period (dv). our constant variables include the angle of release (30°) and the length of the string (64 cm). after testing six different masses (as seen on data table 2), our times vary again but with a calculated standard deviation of only 0.03. looking at graph 2, there is no apparent slope either and the error bars are long too. we can conclude from this that are claim was wrong and the mass of the bob does not affect the period of a pendulum either and there is no relationship present.

	for the final experiment, pendulum period vs. length of string, our claim was that when the length of the string (iv) increased, so would the time for the period (dv). our constant variables include the angle of release (30°) and the mass of the bob (250 g) in week 2, the first time we conducted this experiment. the constant variables in week 4, the second time we conducted this, were still the angle of release and the mass of the bob but at 10° and 50 g. week 2, after testing five different lengths (as seen on data table 3), our times gradually increase and there is a low amount of error as shown by the error bars. the standard deviation was 0.5. week 4, after testing seven different lengths (as seen on data table 4), our times still gradually increase and there is a low amount of error. the standard deviation was 0.6 looking at graphs 3 & 4, there is a positive slope. in week 2, we decided the relationship was linear, but in week 4, we found it to be a nonlinear power relationship (as seen in figure 4). we can conclude from this that our claim was right is  the length of the string does affect the period of a pendulum and there is a power relationship present.

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is is  $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ where t is time, l is length of string, and g is acceleration. when solving for the constant, you use 2∏*√(g) which is equal to 0.2007 cm/s^2. our mathematical model is is  $p=2.108 l^{0.4.33}$. this was produced through our final experiment and shown on graph 4 (done through excel). our constant is 2.108 which is very close to 2.007 cm/s^2. for the other factors, no theoretical mathematical model was created due to there being no relationship present between the iv & dv.

	there are both systemic and random errors with each of these experiments. systemic errors include improper readings on the stopwatch due to technical issues. a way to fix this would be to use a different stopwatch. another error was the person holding and releasing the pendulum. a way to fix this would be to be more precise when handling the pendulum. random errors include incorrectly measuring the length of the string. a way to fix this would be to more precise and careful when measuring the string. another error was the accuracy of starting and stopping the stopwatch. a way to fix this would be to pay close attention, be alert and be in communication with the person releasing the pendulum.

	constraints for this experiment definitely include wind resistance, which we did not take into account during these experiments. air resistance would eventually cause the pendulum to slow down and come to a complete stop. we didn’t take it into account though because we only tested one period (swing) and that’s what has the least air resistance so our periods weren’t affected by it.