discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this lab was to investigate the how different variables affected the acceleration of a cart on a frictionless air track.  mathematical models were developed for the variables tested in both lab 05 and lab 06 to help better understand the effects.  

the variables tested in lab 05 were the hanging mass of the system as well as the starting point for the cart.  to test each variable, all things were held constant (control variables) so it could be ensured that the results received came as a result of the variable tested.  we found that the change in hanging mass influenced the acceleration, but the starting point of the cart did not.  we could conclude that the changing mass affected the acceleration because of the mathematical model and graphed.  when the data points were graphed, a linear relationship could be noticed.  also, a linear equation fit the data set almost perfectly because of the r-value of 0.999.  this means that as weight was added to the hanging mass, the acceleration of the cart increased.  we concluded that the starting point of the cart had no effect due to the same reasoning.  when the data set was plotted on a graph, the resulting line had no slope.  this means that the acceleration did not change as the starting point changed and everything else was held constant.  

the variable tested in lab 06 was the presence of a magnetic field.  since we concluded from lab 05 that the starting distance had no effect on the acceleration of the cart, the variable we decided to test with the magnets was the weight of the hanging mass.  we used the results gained from lab 05 as our control experiment, so we could strictly focus on the effect of the magnetic field.  three trials were conducted.  with each trial, two more magnets were added to the system.  their weights were recorded as part of the system so the experiment would be consistent.  the results we found were that with the increase of magnets in the system, the lower the acceleration became of the cart.  also, the heavier the weight of the heavier the mass of the cart, the lower the acceleration was.  as seen from the graphs from lab 06, the hanging mass and the acceleration have a linear relationship, but this time they are negatively correlated.  this means that the acceleration became smaller as the mass of the cart increased.  this proves that the repulsion of the magnets placed on the cart does have a large effect on the acceleration.  it seems to act against the forces causing the cart to accelerate.





the first picture is a group who performed a different experiment than ours.  they tested the incline of the air track and how it affected the acceleration of the cart.  the acceleration of the cart increased as the inclined increased, but at a much slower rate.  the second picture is a graph of a group who completed the same experiment as ours.  their results are very similar to ours.  their data is slightly different from ours.  this be a result of the different setting they performed the experiment in.  for example, the computer could have been calibrated differently than ours, causing their values to differ from ours.  also, their track could have contained different amounts of friction than ours, which would also skew their results from the results we obtained.

since our graphs were not perfectly linear relationships, we know that there was error in the experiment.  this error could have been systematic or random.  one source of random error for the mass vs. acceleration comparison could be falsely reading the mass of each bobber.  this would cause the data we collected and compared to the acceleration to be skewed.  another source of random error in the experiment occurred during the experiment involving the starting distance of the cart.  our group members could have falsely read the distance in which the cart started from the end point, which would also have caused the results to be imperfect.  one source of systematic error within these experiments involve the air track.  the track is not perfectly frictionless, so there was some source of friction acting against the force of the cart.  this friction could have been applied in different places.  this would cause the accelerations recorded to differ from each other.  another source of systematic error within these experiments involves the device that measured the acceleration.  the device could not have been perfectly calibrated.  since it was not perfectly calibrated, the acceleration values we received differed from the groups who performed the same experiment as us.  this means that we can not be sure that the results we obtained from this experiment were the actual accelerations of the cart.


some constraints within this experiment include the bobbers, weights, and magnets provided in the lab.  these are constraints because we were not able to test a wider range of data to ensure that the results, we obtained, were accurate and consistent.  for example, if we were to add more bobbers to the system, would the acceleration stop increasing after a certain point?  or would the cart stop moving, or stop decreasing in acceleration once a certain amount of repulsion from the magnets is put into the system?  these questions could only be answered if we were able to continue taking measurements with a wider range of materials.

in the first experiment, a linear relationship was concluded between the force of the system and the acceleration.  this makes sense because the mass of the system remains the same, while the acceleration increases at a constant rate.  so, when the mass of the system and the acceleration are multiplied to obtain the force, the resulting data point will show a linear relationship.  

we were unable to reach the experiment between the weight of the system and the acceleration.  this relationship should be an exponential relationship.  this makes sense because the hanging mass is held constant, while the mass of the cart increases.  so, the acceleration of the cart would have to decrease in order for the system to conserve the total force.