discussion and conclusion



	the main goal of labs 1, 2, and 3 were to observe the relationship between the length, weight, and angle of a pendulum to see if there was an effect on the time period. the three variables that were tested were length of pendulum string (inches), the mass attached to the pendulum (grams), and the angle at which the pendulum was released (degrees). the first variable that was tested was the weight attached to the pendulum, release angle and pendulum length were held constant. the pendulum was released each time, and 3 group members used stopwatches to record the time it took to complete 3 full swings. this was repeated 5 times in total, increasing the weight by 40 grams each time. the graph of this data (shown in figure 1) appears to show a trend in the first four runs, however on the fifth run, the data does not follow the same trend. the error bars on the graph indicate a large variance in the data. this is because we used stopwatches to measure the time period, which lead to a large amount of random error. with this information, it was concluded that there was no correlation between the weight of the pendulum and the time period. this is due to the fact that the force of gravity is constant, therefore the pendulum accelerates at the same speed no matter what the weight, which supports our prediction that the time period would not be affected. if the experiment were to be conducted again using stopwatches, more people should be used to record the time as it would provide more data in order to collect a more accurate result. the second variable that was tested was the angle at which the pendulum was released. the length of the pendulum and the weight attached to it were kept constant. the pendulum was held at a predetermined angle, then released as 3 group members recorded the time period using stopwatches. the angle was first set at 20 degrees, then increased by 20 each time until we reached 80 degrees. figure 2 shows the collected data where a small but noticeable trend appeared. however, once the error bars were added, it was concluded that the starting angle of the pendulum had no effect on the time period. this is because by increasing the starting angle, the pendulum has more time to accelerate, thus not affecting the time it took to complete 3 full swings. this random error in the data is due to the fact that we were using stopwatches to record the time by hand, which is not very accurate. this information refutes our initial prediction, as we predicted the greater the angle, the longer it would take to swing. the third variable that was tested was the overall length of the pendulum string. the mass and start angle of the pendulum were kept constant. the string was first put to 25 inches, and released at an angle of 30 degrees. the string was then decreased by 5 inches on each successive run. figure 3 shows the graph of the data collected where it shows a near perfect relationship between length and time period. the error bars on the graph do not overlap one another, which indicates accurate data. this information supports our initial prediction that changing the length of the string will also change the time period of the pendulum. having determined that the length of the pendulum was the only variable that truly has an effect on the time period, the experiment was conducted again in lab 3, this time using a photogate. the photogate is much more accurate at measuring the time period as it had a range of uncertainty within 0.001 seconds, much less than what could be achieved using the stopwatches. during lab 3, the same string lengths, pendulum weight, and start angle was used to collect the data. starting at 5 inches, the pendulum was released at 30 degrees, and the photogate was used to measure the time period between each swing. with the data that was collected, a graph (figure 4) was created using excel. from there, an equation was generated to determine the slope of the graph. this was done by using the r2 value. an r2 value that is closer to 1 indicates a more accurate equation. the equation that was generated was $y=0.18653598 x$ with an r2 value of 0.9984. with this information, it was determined that the relationship between the length of a pendulum and its time period is non-linear. this information was then compared to other groups in the lab, and 3 other groups had supported our data in that the relationship was non-linear.