conclusion and discussion: 

 the purpose of the labs was to create mathematical models that can be used in a lab setting and, to gain an understanding for each variable and numerical value in the mode, also to test which variables influenced the acceleration.

these experiments developed the mathematical models by creating a graph based on forces vs. acceleration.  the results produced can be used to see which variables affect acceleration and forces.  from the linear models the y is equal to the acceleration within the system.  the x then represents 1/kg in the system.  the constant of this represents the force and the variable equals acceleration.  the constant at the end is equal to acceleration.  this can be a negative number representing a decrease in the overall acceleration, it can also be positive showing an increase in the overall acceleration. from the polynomial model and equation, the y is set to equal to acceleration but, the first x value (x^2) now represents velocity, and the constant with this variable is 1/m*kg. this puts the equation in acceleration.  the next two values in the equation are the same as the linear equation, x being force and constant being 1/kg. the end constant being in acceleration (m/s^2).

the data from other groups agrees with the results conducted in the experiments.  this data was received from groups in another class due to not receiving data from the groups in the original class.  the results match with the results from the experiment ran in our class.  the results that were found from both groups supports the characterization of the variables above.  in both experiments the graph displays force in the x axis and acceleration on the y axis.  this supports the choice of the specific variables in the mathematical model. group 2 from class section number 003 based their findings off the height of the track instead of an angle. regardless of this difference in documentation the variables that were label in their experiment are the same as the ones labeled in this lab report.  from group 3 section 006, the graph that they have has the same x and y axis labels.  this supports the variable characterization of our finding and the other groups findings.  the second group used the angle of the track just like our group did therefore, it can be concluded that the variables have the same units in the experimental mathematical model. 


 the error within this lab was for the most part random error, there was however some systematic error that was observed.  the systematic error in the system could be the bobbers added onto the end of the pulley not all being the same weight. we were told to assume all the bobber were the same weight. this could have altered the calculated values for force. the random error in the lab is mainly caused by human error and one error could be from not graphing enough data points from the recorded data. this could vary the slope of the line and vary the calculated values given the mathematical model. another source of human error could be the release of the car not being perfect.

 constraints in this lab are not being able to change the acceleration of gravity in the lab and not being able to test a very wide range of values during the lab. these constraints make the mathematical models more general due to the decrease in testable values. the values that we could test in this experiment are limited because we can only change and test one variable at a time. $f=m a$ causes the only variable that could be altered in this experiment was the mass of the system. trying to change the force could only be done by adding weight onto the end of the pulley. this would violate the experiment and shows the constraints in the experiment.

the mathematical models from these experiments support newtons second law by keeping the constants equal to the same units.  as well as being all based off the force within the experiment. when weight is added to the system the equation turns into a polynomial because the addition of weight adds a new to the equation in the x^2.  this accounts for the changing mass and explains why the equation for adding mass is a polynomial.