discussion 



we attempted to discover the level of affect that time, mass, and release angle have on the expected time of one period. for each individual experiment, we altered the independent variable in order to clearly see the effect it had on time of the period. we predicted that the length of the string would affect the time of the period. graph 4 shows us that there is a positive trend in our data. moreover, with this graph, we calculated its linear regression and found an r-squared value of .9961 showing our data to be almost linear; further backing our claim that as the length increased, the period increased as well. moreover, the error bars in graph 1 show a small standard deviation thus showing our data to be concise; validating our positive trend. graph 2, however, shows little to no correlation between the weight of the pendulum and the length of the period; there is no considerable trend shown between the plotted points. the error bars on this graph are the largest of all of the graphs. this means that there is the greatest standard deviation. lastly, graph 3 shows a positive trend between the angle of the release point and length of the period; there is a positive trend between the plotted points. the error bars on this graph are also relatively big so the standard deviation would be relatively large itself.

there are several errors that could potentially negatively affect the validity of our data. initially, we were concerned with using one stopwatch to time the length of the period. so, we initially used two stopwatches and found the mean time. eventually we used a motion sensed apparatus to time the length of the period. another potential error was the release point angle. for every trial we measured the release point angle with a protractor, but it is unlikely that we released the pendulum from the same point for each trial. with unlimited resources it would be best fitted to design an apparatus that would be able to hold the pendulum at the same angle each trial. moreover, the length of the string could also present an issue. with simply our ruler and eyes, it is difficult to measure out the exact needed length. a potential fix for this would be to have the string properly measured and cut so that the length becomes more exact. 

the most impactful constraint came within our initial trials when the length of the period was measured by a simple stopwatch. while we tried to minimize the error by using more than one stopwatch, we still faced vulnerability to inaccurate measurements. if we started the experiment by using the motion detected apparatus and computer program to record our measured times, the times would have been more accurate and time efficient. also, our class time has a window that constrains the amount of time we could spend on the trials. unlimited time and resources would allow for more accurate measurements, with smaller standard deviations to support the validity of our findings. 

	along with the calculated r-squared value, we calculated the theoretical equation for the period of the pendulum; taking the form of $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ where t is time of pendulum swing, l is length of pendulum string, and g is the acceleration of gravity. the mathematical model produced in lab has a significantly lower coefficient than the theoretical model. this is due to a lack of accuracy in our data points because of the aforementioned constraints and potential errors. our model of $y=2.1269 x^{0.4111}$ would not produce the same as the theoretical model provided.