discussion and conclusion 

in lab 5 our objective was to develop a mathematical model which in turn described the behavior of a real physical system.  in lab 6 we were given the task of further developing our understanding of the models we had just made in lab 5 and what the variables in these models translated to in real systems. 

the 3 total experiments we tested and graphed were acceleration vs weight of system (graph #1) and acceleration vs applied force (graph #2) in lab 5, and acceleration vs applied force (graph #4) at an angle in lab 6.  these three experiments led to the creation of our mathematical models because running them gave us data we then graph.  our graphs is what ultimately led to the creation of these models.  in all three models our linear equation contained 2 variable, y and x.  the real-life y is considered the acceleration and x is the force applied. 
this is the hypothesis, conclusion, and equation from group #5.  we can look at this data along with data from other groups to compare our results.  comparing results allows us to get a better grasp of what our mathematical model actually stands for.
one systematic error our experiment may have experienced was the error from the rotary motion sensor, the error given to us was .001m/s.  another possible cause of systematic error could have been the triple beam balance which we used to weigh our masses.   we determined the error of this to be .005g.  any random error we could have would be human error, but we have confidence on the outcome of the lab.
the only possible constraint could have been that we weren’t able to full see what acceleration looks like at large angles, since the largest angle we tested was .5 degrees.  other than that i am not aware of any given lab constraints.
our mathematical models are consistent with newtons second law that net $f = m a$.  this is because our tests were linear with a positive slope, such as graph #1, which means that as acceleration increases, and you have a constant mass then the applied force must be increasing.  which is the case in our graphs trendline.