discussion and conclusion:

	the research question for this lab was what effects the period of the pendulum? the three experiments addressed this research question by looking at three different possible factors in the period of the pendulum. the three factors that were tested were the mass at the end of a pendulum, the length of the pendulum, and the angle of release of the pendulum. the claim that was made for the mass experiment was that a larger mass at the end of the pendulum would equal a longer period. the claim that was made for the length of the pendulum was that the longer the length of the pendulum the longer the period would be. finally, the claim that was made about the angle of release of the pendulum was that the larger the angle of release the longer that the period would be. 

	the results showed that the only potential factor that effected the period of the pendulum was the length of the pendulum. this claim holds true under the constant variables of a mass of 50 grams at the end of the period as well as a release angle of 10 degrees. this can be seen by the graph of the length of the pendulum vs time. this shows that the longer the length of the pendulum the longer the period. these results can be trusted because the error bars do not overlap, and this means that the results are reasonable values. the results also showed that the mass at the end of the pendulum and the angle of release of the pendulum do not affect the period of the pendulum. this can be seen by the graph because the error bars all overlap so this means that any change could fall within one standard deviation of the measurement meaning that there is likely no change from point to point. this indicates that there is no relationship between the two possible factors and the period of the pendulum. 

	the results from the excel graph were then used to determine a curve fit and create a mathematical model. this mathematical model was perio$d=2.0869 x^{0.3878}$. this fits closely to the theoretical model of the period of a pendulum. this theoretical model is perio$d=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. this is supported by our data because it is concluded from the results that the length of the pendulum is the only factor that matters in the period a pendulum. the only difference is that the mathematical model that was created from the results of the excel graph does not consider gravity. 

	there were random errors during the testing of the three factors however there were no systematic errors. the random errors were reduced by repeating the measurements several times. the more data points that can be created the less that the random error of reaction time with the stopwatch would affect the results. the points were then all added together, and an average was created. another way that the error was reduced was by using a photogate to take the measurements again but remove all random error of reaction time. these numbers were then used to calculate the standard deviation and error bars. the error bars were added to the graph and it could then be seen quickly if the values had changed each the time the independent variable was changed or if it was just error that occurred during the measuring process.

	the constraints during the experiment were the gravity of the location that was used as well as a release angle of 10 degrees and a mass of 50 grams. the claim that the length of a pendulum has a positive correlation to the period of a pendulum has only be shown with these constraints present. since this is the case it cannot be assumed that this will hold true for every conceivable release angle and mass at the end of the pendulum. also, since the test was conducted in only one area the results could vary depending on the different locations on earth due to the affects of gravity on the pendulum system. therefore, it can only be said that the length of the pendulum affects the period only when the given constraints are being used. this will be the case until all other possible constraints are tested.