discussion and conclusion

the question being investigated in this lab is what are the factors that affect the period of a pendulum.

each of the three experiments addressed a different aspect of the research question. in experiment 1, we explored what factors will affect the period of the pendulum and did experiments of three of the factors mentioned. by creating experimental design template (table 1-3), we learned how to design experiments to test our claims. the data obtained for three factors is included in table 4-6. after the experiments, we claimed that all the factors tested affected the period of the pendulum. the length of the string and the angle of release had a positive correlation with the period of the pendulum. the mass had a negative correlation with the pendulum. this can be observed through figure 1-3. 

the claims are valid until we consider the error bars of the data. this is what was discussed in experiment 2. the second experiment discussed how to take into account errors in the conclusion drawn from graphs and data. from experiment 2, we added error bars, which helped eliminated the factor mass and angle of release from factors that affected the period of the pendulum. from figure 2 and 3, it can be observed that the error bars overlap with each other, which indicates that the values measured might be the same. this is different from figure 1, when all the error bars do not overlap with each other. through this, we can claim that only the length of string, from our three factors, had a positive correlation with the period of the pendulum.

in experiment 3, we discussed how to create mathematical models from the data obtained through previous experiments. in this experiment, we focused on only the length of the string because the other two factors were eliminated from the previous experiment. we also used a more precise equipment for measuring in order to reaffirm our previous claims that the length of the string had a positive correlation with the period of the pendulum. the new experimental design is in table 7. the new data obtained is shown in table 8, and the graph along with the error bars is in figure 4. through experiment 3, we concluded that our mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is . with , which is very close to 1, we can conclude that our model fits well with our data. we also tested multiple curves to fit our data and only had the linear relationship with r2 closest to 1.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is. our data fits well with the theoretical model. when calculating the period using the length measured, the theoretical model gives us value very close to what we measured. the difference is in our mathematical model of the period of the pendulum compare to the theoretical model. our model is a linear relationship between the length (calculated in cm) of the string and the period while the theoretical model is a linear relationship between the square root of the length (calculated in m) and the period. from this difference, we can conclude that our claim, model will only be true in cases where the length of the string is small, about 100 cm or less. from the theoretical model, it can be seen that mass and angle of release will have no effect on the period of the pendulum. the pendulum only has two variables affecting the period which is length and gravitational force. 

some of the errors in this lab is is  different reaction time, inaccuracy in angle of release, any force when releasing the pendulum, amount of test cases and any equipment inaccuracy. the error of different reaction time (a random error) was resolved in experiment 3 by using a more precise equipment. the inaccuracy in angle of release (a random error) and any force when releasing the pendulum (a random error) can be solved by using a machine to hold the pendulum at an exact spot in all test cases. as for amount of test cases (a systematic error), we can only do the experiments more to increase the accuracy of the data.

the experiments had some restraints in that the length measured was not too varied in length. we also need to test for lengths that are much longer and much shorter. the experiment environment also had other factors which might have affected the results of the experiment. another constraint was time constraint, the amount of test cases was not enough to generalize the results.