	The original question that sparked this research was, “What factor(s) affect the length of the period of a pendulum”. Originally my group and I thought that the independent variables Length of String, Mass of the Object, and the Angle of Release, all had an impact on how long the period was. 
	The first Independent Variable to be omitted from our research was Mass in the first experiment. After performing the experiment, we found that there was no correlation between the two, in fact, had it not been for human error all swings at all masses would have had the same period. After also testing the Mass Vs Time factor in the second experiment we found that the error bars completely overlapped, proving the values were not changing and that there was no correlation. 
	The Independent variable of String Length was the only value to hold its hypothesis through all experiments. Even though we found that mass had no effect on the period we decided to keep it as a constant for all three experiments. In Lab1 we found that the relationship between Length and Time was a linear relationship. This was found also in the second experiment. I believe it came off this way because of the human error in time measurement. In the second experiment the error bars were large, allowing for a large question in our data. The experiment we performed used an instrument called “Photogate” that allowed for an extremely accurate measurement of data. After pretty much eliminating human error we were able to see that the relationship between Length and Time is nonlinear. We found the relationship to be a power curve. Due to the accuracy of the data taken from the Photogate the error bars on the graph are so small they are not visible. We are extremely confident in our final data because of the nonvisible error bars.
	The last Independent Variable my team and I decided was a factor affecting the period was the Angle at which the object was released at. We originally believed that the larger the angle from, the faster the period. Due to human error we thought the angle had a part in determining the period of the pendulum. The error bars were large in experiment 2 but weren’t so large they were alarming in the Mass Vs Time graphs. It wasn’t until the beginning of experiment 3 that we realized the angle of release had nothing to do with the length of the period. We figured out this by looking at the equation for finding the period, in which angle is not mentioned at all. (Equation attached below)
$t=2 \pi \sqrt \frac{l}{g}$


	Looking at the formula it is easy to see that the graph of the function will be a power curve, that is, to a power of ½. This proves my groups data being a power curve relationship. When looking at the equation the only factor is the Length of the pendulum. This is of course neglecting the fact that g could also be a variable but for this lab’s purpose we decided to neglect the idea that there is a possibility of completing this experiment on a different planet.

	It is human nature to make errors. Most of our errors in this lab were human errors. 
Below they are listed:
Releasing the object not parallel to the whiteboard being used to measure angle
Error in time measurement (In first two experiments)
Error estimating when velocity is zero
Although there are errors calculating the actual values, I believe given the time and 
resources we did the best we possibly could have in the end. The Photogate helped us to eliminate many human errors.

	Although we were able to obtain acceptable levels of accuracy from our experiments during this lab, we did have a few constraints. They are listed below:
	
Time. Time was a big constraint in the process of collecting data. It is well known random errors are lessoned with the more trials made and more data collected. Given the time of the lab (2 hours) we were only able to perform a maximum of 10 trials for each Independent Variable. Had we been given more time we could have collected more data, thus leading to less errors in data collected.
	-Accurate lab equipment. For the first two experiments especially, our data was very off due to the resources we were given. Many human errors were obviously made in the time measurements. These errors are shown by looking at the error bars in the Lab2 graphs, as they were very large. The Photogate helped eliminate some of those errors, but I think if we were given even more accurate instruments our data could have been much more accurate.
