Discussion and Conclusion:

The purpose of this lab was to find mathematical models that described the behaviors of systems in the physical world and to understand the meaning of the variables in each equation.
The data we took from each experiment from labs 5 and 6 gave us graphs and data tables that led us to our conclusions and mathematical models. We chose the models based on the R^2 value; the closer the R^2 value is to 1 means that the variables on the graph are closely correlated which means that the mathematical model is much more accurate. In graph 1 the highest R^2 value we found was associated with the power function $Y =1.4731 e^{0.002 x}$ . In graph 2, the high R^2 value was associated to a linear model, so for graph 2 and table 2 the model is $Y =0.0284 x +0.0072$ .
Group #2’s findings were similar to ours in that they tested the same 3 scenarios; negative slope, positive slope, and no slope. And they have linear models for each of their equations but our R^2 values were closer to 1 than theirs. Group #4’s findings differed from ours because their calculation relied on the friction of the track because they had magnets on their cart, whereas our AirTrack was frictionless.

If the scale we used to measure the masses we used in the experiment was not calibrated correctly, this could lead to inaccurate results because the y intercept of our equations could be changed. This being said, because of our findings, we can be confident that this was not one of the systematic errors that effected our experiment. Also a random error that may have affected the experiment was the observation of the length of the starting point on the AirTrack because the divisions on the measuring tape were very small so it was difficult to determine the exact starting point of the cart.
Because the surface we were testing on was frictionless, the results on a rough surface that has a high coefficient of friction would be different than our findings. Also, drag was negligible because of the short distance and the shape of the cart. But if an object had a high drag coefficient over a long distance, this could also effect the results.
When mass of the system is increased, the acceleration of the system decreases. This is true because of the validity of our mathematical models we found in the experiments. Therefore since the two variables have an inverse relationship, this proves that the summation of the forces remains the same if the mass of the system increases and the acceleration of the system decreases.
