conclusion:
our research question was: how does the acceleration of the system change when the vertical force changes? the experiment with hanging weight as the independent variable addressed the research question because it answers the question by creating a larger force using more mass and vice versa. we found that because of the added mass, there was more force needed to move the cart and the acceleration. based on the data we gathered, the claim that we make is the more mass that was added onto the cart, the smaller the acceleration got. this can be identified in the graph above referring to this experiment as the slope is negative as the values for mass get larger. because the range of uncertainty is so small, we believe that the values we got are extremely accurate so our claim must be true. because there is more and more weight on the cart, the hanging weight does not generate enough force for the cart to move and its acceleration becomes less and less.
here are some of the other group’s findings from lab 5. as stated above in the image, many of the models and conditions line up with our models and findings. they too also observed that the more mass on weight 1 meant less acceleration. some groups added in the weight of the cart into the mass of weight 1 to create a discrepancy with our conditions for the experiments. the model for the second part had more variety in their values, mostly in the exponent and the coefficient. we had the lowest coefficient and smallest exponent, but we used more mass on our cart than most other teams did for our second experiment so that is a cause for this discrepancy. 

so we all know that acceleration is force divided by the mass of the system. the equation that we follow in this experiment is cx+y. the first constant in the equation, which was 2.4245, represents 1 over the total sum of mass 1 and mass 2 in the experiment, which includes the mass of all the bobbers and the mass of the metal weight. the second constant, or the intercept constant in this equation, represents the slope of the track which is almost nonexistent. because the air track is horizontal, the intercept constant is very small and close to zero. it was 0.0243. technically the y is so small the the equation can just be cx. $f=m a$ so we can use the known mass and the dependent variable of acceleration to see the force, and can alter the equation to fit our project. our curve fit very accurately with r^2 values all above 0.99 for most experiments. 
in case the reader was unaware, $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$ is being provided and the discussion for how the experimental mathematical model supports the theoretical model is our model in the above paragraph represents the first part of this equation, with the external forces if any being the second part of this equation. we experienced external forces through friction or through incline of the track which caused friction. this explains the equation because the negative force of friction divided by mass is added to the positive force of the cart divided by the mass. 



our prediction was “as we increase the mass of the system, the acceleration will decrease.” we also found “the acceleration will decrease because there is a larger force needed in order to accelerate the car”. both of these predictions were true because of the values we found on our tables verify the predictions we make, because as stated above, the table has values of mass increasing and the values for acceleration decreasing. also, we found that the higher the slope was, the more external force was lost trying to go up the slope which resulted in less acceleration of the cart’s values. we already had some discussion about the circumstances of random error and systematic error in the error bar description, but because there was little ability to create error in the controlled environment such as the vacuum track and the computer program, so we had very little to even discuss about errors. the only errors in my opinion were some chosen values to be our mass during some of the experiments.



  for constraints, we identified that we could not have too much weight on the string or you would possibly break  the program, but putting too little weight on the string would not result in any movement in the car. making the cart too heavy results in it not being able to move. our values were very general and would be easily repeatable. the values we used were on the verge of being too heavy that the cart would not move, so a constraint would be below some of the larger mass values we chose. we could not locate any constraints in the lab papers that are provided, so we had trouble identifying them or figuring out what was meant by the constraints.