discussion and conclusion

	what factors impact the acceleration of a system? the lab was intended to create mathematical models that would describe a real system as well as to understand the numerical values of the equations along with the meaning of the variables. during the investigation of the impact of the force against the acceleration of a system there was a positive correlation between the acceleration and the force. in graph 1 it can be seen that as the force, or the hanging mass, increased so did the acceleration of the system. the error bars which were 0.001 m/s^2 do not overlap at the equivalency criterion of one standard deviation. this shows that the acceleration as the forces change can not be said to be the same. in other words, as the force changes so does the acceleration, positively. the equation $a=3.0488 f - 0.039$ shows the coefficient in front of f is the inverse of the mass of the system. if the theoretical model of $f = m a$ is used, then to rearrange the mathematical model you must divide f by the mass. this observation holds true as the true mass of the system was 0.33803 kg while the inverse of 3.0488 is 0.328. the r squared value of this graph using a linear trendline was 0.9982 so the trendline is accurate in showing the actual values of the system. during the investigation of the impact of the mass of the system against the acceleration of a system there was a negative correlation between the acceleration and the mass of the system. in graph 2 it can be seen that as the mass of the system increased the acceleration of the system decreased. the error bars which were 0.001 m/s^2 do not overlap at the equivalency criterion of one standard deviation. this shows that the acceleration as the mass of the system changes cannot be said to be the same. in other words, as the mass of the system changes so does the acceleration, negatively. during the investigation of the impact of the friction of the system against the acceleration of a system there was no correlation between the intercepts and the friction of the system. in graph 3 it can be seen that as the friction of the system increased the intercepts showed no pattern. the error bars which were 0.001 m/s^2 do not overlap at the equivalency criterion of one standard deviation. if the intercepts of the equations found in graph 3 are looked at there is no pattern. the intercepts increase and then decrease. this shows that there is no change in the friction of the system that would cause the total acceleration to change. the slopes change but this is due to errors that will be discussed later. during the investigation of the impact of the tilt of the system against the acceleration of a system there was a correlation between the intercepts and the tilt of the system. in graph 4 which was created by group 6 it can be seen that as the tilt of the system increased the intercept also increased. the error bars which were 0.001 m/s^2 do not overlap at the equivalency criterion of one standard deviation. the linear fit still stands for these equations as the r squared values range from 0.987 to 0.999. if the intercepts of the equations found in graph 4 are looked at there is a positive increase. as the track is tilted forward the intercepts increase. relating this to $f = m a$, the forces acting on the system are found on the left side where f is. this f is actually the sum of all of the forces acting on the system in a given plane. as the track is tilted forward the normal force of the system now has components in the x direction, or the direction of the acceleration of the system. this follows the mathematical models that were determined because as the track has increasingly larger angles, the intercepts of the equations increase. this shows that the intercepts are related to the normal force divided by the mass. 
	the graph 5 was created by group 2 who tested the change in the friction of the system impacting the acceleration. there are no claims gathered from other groups as there was not time in lab to get the data and claims but the data presented agrees with that found in the changes in the intercepts discussed above. the intercepts here do not have any apparent pattern, so the data supports the claim made above for the theoretical models.

	if a heavy string was used to connect the hanging mass and the cart, then the acceleration would not increase linearly as there would be more and more mass pulling the cart down. the force on the system would change during a single trial. as more of the string passes over the pulley there would be more mass that is pulling the cart along the track which should cause the acceleration to increase non-linearly.

	a random error that could have impacted the results of the lab was the placement of the masses along the cart. during some trials they were on one side of the cart while on the other side during another trial. this also was true when testing the friction as the bars that were used to add mass to would fall off after each trial and need to be replaced. a way to reduce these errors is to be more careful about the placement of the mass on the car.

	the major constraints of the experiment were the length that the carts were pulled, the acceleration of the system, and the weight of the string. the lengths that the carts were pulled were less than 100 cm so this limited our claims to only provide data for this length of the string. in order to be confident that the force does not change as the bobbers fall further, more testing of longer tracks would need to be conducted. for the acceleration of the system, it become inaccurate using the software while the force became larger than that used with only the bobbers. when attempting to add more mass to the hanging bobber the acceleration was so large that the software could not read it accurately. this limits our conclusions to accelerations that occur with less than 0.3 kg. the weight of the string also limits our claim because there were no tests conducted that included a string with a mass associated with it. the conclusions drawn would not apply if a string or connection to the cart and hanging mass had any sort of mass associated with it.