discussion and conclusion: 

	the reason for the conduction of this lab is to develop models that depict the behavior of a system, as well as, establish an understanding of each variable and numerical value included in the model. within lab 05, the creation of mathematical models were the prime objective, while in lab 06, the prime objective was to analyze and understand the variable and numerical value within the model. with the first experiment, our group investigated the relationship between the independent variable, the hanging mass, and the dependent variable, the acceleration of the system. this experiment addresses the research question, as the main objective was to find a relationship between the independent and dependent variable, as well as, develop a mathematical model to depict the behavior of the system. our group initially hypothesized that there was a positive correlation between the force applied and the acceleration of the system. after collecting and analyzing the data, it can be concluded that there was a positive correlation between the hanging mass and the acceleration of the system. the increase in the force applied of the hanging mass, also led to an increase in the acceleration of the system. evidence of this relationship can be found in figure 1. the mathematical model found with figure 1 was $y=2.6608 x + 0.004$ where the r-squared value was found to be .9998. the r-squared value is very close to 1, suggesting that the trendline is a very good representation of the data. the error bars within figure 1 are too small to be seen, both the horizontal and vertical bars. figure 1 suggests, not only that the trendline fits the data very well, but also suggests that there is a very confident correlation between the applied force, and the acceleration of the system. it can be concluded that the applied force has a direct relationship to the acceleration of the system. in other words, an increase in the force applied of the hanging mass, leads to an increase in the acceleration of the system. due to lack of time within the lab period, other group’s data from lab 05 was not obtained; however, a brief discussion before the beginning of lab 06 took place that discussed the equations obtained from lab 05. it was determined that the equations were similar and supported our initial hypothesis and conclusion. we took a picture of our group’s data from lab 05 and the acquired equations; however, data from the other groups were not able to be captured before the end of the lab as everyone had already left without writing their equations on the white boards. 

	although the findings from the other groups from lab 05 were unable to be acquired, the findings from lab 06; however, were able to be acquired. from comparison, it can be determined that the findings from the other groups support our findings and conclusion. it can be observed that the acceleration decreased whether it be from the force applied, or from the frictional forces, it can be concluded that the findings prove that the placement of the magnets had an effect on the acceleration of the system. the acceleration was decreased as the magnets were placed lower on the cart. 

	the theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system is that of $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$, where the mathematical model obtained from figure 1 displays this relationship. the linear relationship between the force applied of the hanging mass and the acceleration of the system suggests a direct correlation between the independent variable and the dependent variable. in the theoretical equation, it can be observed that when the force applied is increased when the mass of the system is constant, the acceleration will also increase. the correlation found from figure 1, ultimately supports the theoretical model. the experimental mathematical model is given as $a=c1 w+c2$. by analyzing the experimental mathematical model, it can be determined that the variables represent a numerical value within the theoretical equation. the variable “c1” represents the force applied, “w” represents the mass, and “c2” represents an external force, which in this case is friction, the mass of the pulley, and the mass of the string. the mathematical model obtained from figure 1 represents the experimental mathematical model as it is displayed in slope-intercept form, $y=2.6608 x + 0.004$. in this case, the numerical value of “2.6608” represents the force applied, “x” represents the hanging mass, and the numerical value of “.0042” represents the external forces. therefore, keeping the mass of the system constant while increasing the force applied of the hanging mass, it can be observed that an increase in the force applied of the hanging mass, is directly followed by an increase in the acceleration. the experimental mathematical equation depicts this relationship; however, with an added variable, “c2”, where “c2” represents the external forces acting on the acceleration of the system. however, through analysis of figure 1, it can be concluded that the experimental mathematical equation does indeed support the theoretical equation. 

	with regards to the enhanced theoretical equation $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$, the experimental mathematical model supports the theoretical model because as shown in figures 3, 4, and 5, the equations obtained from these data sets depict what exactly is being represented in the theoretical equation. by breaking down the equations obtained from figures 3, 4, and 5, it can be determined that the variables “c1”, “x”, and “c2,” can be determined. the three equations obtained are linear relationships depicting two forces acting on the system and the effect it has on the acceleration of the system. the first linear equation, $y=2.7237 x^{-0.0609}$ represents the format of the enhanced theoretical equation, as “c1” is equivalent to the numerical value of “2.7237, the variable “x” is equivalent to the mass, and “c2” is equivalent to -.0609. the r-squared value was found to be .9732, therefore the trendline is a fair representation of the data. the second linear equation, from figure 4, $y=2.5118 x^{-0.0645}$, also represents the format of the enhanced theoretical equation, as “c1” is equivalent to the value of “2.5118”, the variable “x” is equivalent to the mass, and “c2” is equivalent to -.0645. the r-squared value from this equation was found to be .9572, which is a fair representation of the data. the third and final linear equation, from figure 5, $y=2.6668 x^{-0.1379}$, represents the enhanced theoretical equation. in this equation, “c1” would be equal to the numerical value of “2.6668”, the variable “x” would be equal to the mass, and “c2” would be equivalent to -.1379. the calculated r-squared value of this equation was .9757, which suggests that the trendline is a good representation of the data. the experimental mathematical equation supports the theoretical model as the force applied and the mass is the slope and the y-intercept of the linear equation are the external forces, such as friction. by having the mass of the system and having two forces act on the system, in this case the two forces being the hanging mass and the frictional force caused by the magnets, it can be determined that the experimental mathematical equations does indeed support the theoretical equation. the external forces found in figures 3, 4, and 5, increased as the magnets were placed lower on the cart, suggesting that the placement of the magnets caused an increase in the frictional force; therefore, causing the acceleration to be less. 

when considering utilizing a heavier string, the mass of the system would be the variable that would change, where the force acting on the hanging mass would ultimately remain unchanged. however, applying the same force with the heavier string, the acceleration would be less, since there is an inversely proportionate relationship between the mass of the system and acceleration. due to the mass of the system increasing, the acceleration would decrease, due to the inversely proportionate relationship between the mass of the system and the acceleration. 

	errors are inevitable within experiments dealing with numerical values, and this experiment is no exception. since a computer program was primarily utilized to calculate the mathematical models, systematic errors could be very present within the experiment. the computer could have systematic error by recording the acceleration incorrectly, whether the value be higher or lower than the true value. the motion sensor used to calculate the slope had an uncertainty of .001. systematic error could also derive from weighing the mass of the bobs and the system. the scale may be skewed to where the values are either higher or lower than the true values. to reduce this source of error, balancing the scales prior to use could prevent systematic error when weighing the bobs or the system. one possible source of random error could be the inaccuracy of the release point of the cart on the air track. the release point of the cart was not constant and varied with each trial, leaving possibility of random error. by implementing a system that would release the cart at the same exact spot every time, the random error could be reduced. random error could result in skewed data when calculating the slope that the computer program created. numerous aspects of the experiment were also assumed, including that the pulley and string were massless, the air track was completely level, and that the air track could have resulted in some horizontal motion rather than just all vertical motion. forces such as gravity, friction, and air resistance may impact the values obtained from the experiment, as there could be a disparity in the magnitude of the forces which could have an impact on the values obtained form the experiment. 

	aside from the existence of errors within the experiment, major constraints may also exist within the experiment. major constraints include the friction of the string on the pulley, and air resistance. friction and air resistance decrease acceleration, as these two forces work against the intended motion. therefore, this would decrease the results, in this case acceleration. although friction can be greatly reduced due to the air track, the friction coefficient cannot be fully eradicated. another major constraint is time, since there is only a small amount of allocated time to conduct the experiment, other variables that could be tested are not possible. for example, the inclination of the air track is another possible independent variable; however, due to the time constraint, it was not possible to conduct the experiment with this independent variable. 