discussion and conclusion

	the research question of this lab was “in what ways do the weight of the pendulum piece, the release angle of the pendulum, and the length of the cord effect the period of the pendulum?” within the three experiments mentioned above, we are able to answer this question based on data collected by the experiment group. 

	based on the data, it is safe to assume that the weight of the pendulum had no effect on the period of the pendulum. the data from lab 01 shows that the weight vs. period data is scattered with random distribution. the regression line comes into contact with only 1 of the 4 points and the r^2 value is below .4.  it is also seen that the error bars in the figure 6 are sometimes overlapping in the y direction, but never doing so in the x direction. this leads me to believe the error in this part of the experiment was was too random and inconsistent to say the results were systematically wrong. this means there is a significant difference. this data gives me enough evidence to believe that the correlation between weight and period length is nonexistent. the hypothesis that the weight will have an inverse relationship with period length was false.

	next is the analysis of the angle of release vs. period of the pendulum. while the data makes it look like it is possible that there is a correlation between the release angle and the period, a more detailed inspection is necessary. first, is the regression line. it s very close to all the point and each successive point seems to follow the trend. then, the r^2 value is a strong .9865. this is very close to one and seems to point towards a correlation of some sort. however, when looking at the actual values, we see that the it only spans from .5 to .61 of a second. we believe that the variation in the values is is due to random (human) error. there is also the evidence in the error bars. we can see that the error bars overlap somewhat with the first two values, but the second value is straying away form the other two too much, and so the idea of random error is very plausible. this final value straying away and not over lapping plus the other two values only overlapping only partially seem to indicate statistically significant differences in the values. therefore, there is no relationship between the angle of release and the period. 

	finally, i analyzed the data of length of the cord versus the period of the pendulum. during the first experiment, we used limited resources to test each of the iv against the dv. however, even with the presence of random error, it was evident that the length of the cord had the most correlated impact on the period length. for more proof, we checked the error bars in excel, and we saw that the x and y directions almost completely over lap. therefore, we can say with some certainty that the values are close to their true values without any significant difference (95% confidence).

	moving on to the mathematical model that was produced from our data in lab 03, it fits the data nearly perfectly. the actual equation created from our data is $y=0.0135 x$ + .733. x is the variable of cord length and y is the period length. this equation fit the data we had with an r^2 value of .9972. since it is very close to 1, the line can be confidently used as a prediction for other periods of different xs (cord lengths). in the question given at the end of lab record 03, it was determined the 5 second period would be produced from a 316.07 cm.

	finally, i’d like to talk about the sources of error in this experiment. in the first experiment (lab 01), we say that the random error came from the hand-to-eye measured angles, lengths and times. any systematic error could have been the actual weights of the pendulum piece since our scale may have been incorrect. the second experiment (lab 02) was where we identified these error sources. the third experiment was used to try and get rid of some of the error and produce extremely accurate results for the iv deemed to be the cause of period length changes. this was the length of the cord. in an attempt to acquire more accurate results, a photo-gate was used to get rid the random error of timing, or at least turn it into systematic error. this worked very well as it is seen the mathematical model and data are correlated to the hypothesis of the data being correlated. however, the prediction was incorrect as the correlation is a positive correlation and not an inverse (negative) one.