conclusion:

 what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?

 in the mass graph, it showed a slope very close to zero, as shown on the graph. this means that there was no correlation to the mass vs the time because of the near zero slope. in the first angle graph, my team and i were led to believe there was a correlation, due to the rising slope, however when we used the pendulum period device, we were able to more simply notice that the slope was near zero and better able to notice that there is no correlation between angle and period while looking at the second angle vs time graph. and finally, the slope of the first length vs time showed that there is a positive correlation between the two and this was confirmed when we did the pendulum with the period device. the slope still had a positive correlation between time and length of rope. which proved our point from the first trial that the length of the rope corresponds with the time of the period. not only did the slope show this, but the error bars also proved the points. in the length vs time graphs, the error bars did not overlap each other ever, showing that the data points have different ranges, whereas in the others, the error bars overlapped and showed that the time periods could be the same, notifying that the change in time could be zero when changing the independent variable for all except length. now, in the first angle graph, that may not be true, but when we did the second angle graph with no random error, our first angle graph was proved wrong and our first length graph was proved right.

 $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ ( https is //www.omnicalculator.com/physics/simple-pendulum) is the equation for the period of a pendulum and as seen, the only independent variable in this is length of the string, which as shown by my previous paragraph is the only one that has correlation with the change in the period of the pendulum. mass and angle of release both have a near zero slope and both of these do not show up in the equation, which makes sense, because when we changed the mass or angle of release, it did not affect the time interval that took place in each period.

 random error regarding angle of release. this error could be reduced by more careful measurements and being able to look closely at the protractor to better tell what the angle is when released. random error regarding the measurement of time. this error can be corrected by either a pendulum timer to get rid of the human part of it or you can use multiple timers to find the average of the two in order to get a possible more exact measurement since people can either stop too early or too late. systematic errors with the equipment (equipment not having a mass of exactly 20 g). this can be resolved by having professionally tested equipment and to also double check the machines with calculations.



 some constraints from this project are not having enough time to do a very large amount of trials. if given more time, more data could be recovered and there would be less of a margin for error. also, the equipment we used could me more efficient. we could have used a computer to measure the angle, release and time the pendulum in order to completely reduce random error.