discussion

the purpose of the this lab was to be able to develop mathematical models which describe the behavior of the system depicted in figure 1.1, and gain an understanding of each factor and variable within the system and how it affects the system as a whole. 

the experiments completed in part i of the lab were testing the affect of changing mass on the falling object and the changing mass of the sliding object to affect acceleration. these experiments lead to the mathematical model of $a = 24.5 m – 0.180$(m/s^2), and the mathematical model of $a = 131.61 m^{-0.892}$(constant). as graph 2.1 shows as the mass of the falling object is increased the acceleration of the trolley is also increased, the second mathematical model is also represented by graph 2.2 because both the equation and the graph show that as the mass of the sliding object is increased the acceleration of the trolley decreases. the mathematical model that resulted from the second part of the experiment is $a = c1 m + c2$. as shown in graph 2.5 the values of c1 and c2 varied for each set of experiments. c1 represents acceleration multiplied by inverse mass on the cart, while c2 represents a value of acceleration. for the experiment the collected values were the value of c1 that is calculated from the graphs is 20.7 for zero bars, 19.22 for one set of bars, and 18.6 for two sets of bars, and c2 which is 0.15 for zero bars, 0.22 for one set of bars, and 0.20 for two sets of bars. 
comparing our findings with the findings of the group above which states that the constant linear mathematical model is affected by the outside of the bars, it is found that both groups found similar findings. the group states that the slopes of graphs were consistent while the constants changed. this is similar to what is depicted in our findings seen through graph 2.5.
taking a look at another groups findings, we find that all of our groups had similar findings as the in the evidence section of their whiteboard it is shown that the slope of the linear line does not vary too much, but the initial constant does vary depending on the force applied by the bars on the trolley.

some of the errors that could have occurred during this lab are the random error of measuring the distance in which the trolley is supposed to be released from. also, if there was something wrong with the rotary acceleration measure system such as it not reading the acceleration high enough that would be a systematic error. another random error would be the measurements of the mass that was added to the falling object. to reduce these errors, one could use higher precision instruments and repeat the experiment multiple times. to eliminate the systematic error it would be possible to measure the acceleration using a different rotary acceleration measuring and comparing the two values. 

some of the constraints of the experiment that may limit generality is the surface on which the system is run. the air blowing up on the trolley is supposed to imitate a frictionless surface, but there is still friction. also, the places where the bar sets were place could effect the acceleration and the lab was not precise about where to place the bars on the trolley. 

the mathematical model is consistent with newton’s second law because it shows that as mass of the falling object increases paired with gravity giving a greater force downwards causes the acceleration of the trolley to increase.