discussion and results

	the research question for these two labs was how can we test the relationships between mass, force applied to a cart, and the acceleration in order to produce a numerical model that resembles the proven theory of $a =\frac{f}{m}$. based on the data and the subsequent graphs created from them, we can determine the validity of our hypotheses and suggest a conclusion for the research question.

	from the experiment of our first lab, we were able to test the validity of both hypotheses. for hypothesis regarding mass and the related acceleration, we found that the acceleration actually has a negative correlation with the acceleration. our data points were tested two times each, and the graph shows a strong linear approximation and r^2 value. the equation that was produced by line of best fit between the mass and acceleration of the cart was an exponential equation $1.223 e^{0.003} x= y$, which was interpreted as y is acceleration and x is the input of mass on the cart. the r^2 value was .996, and showed to be a strong representation of the actual model. for the next hypothesis, we said that the force applied will have a positive correlation with the acceleration. we also decided to confirm the truth of this hypothesis due to the data and linear approximation values. as seen in figure 1, the line of best fit was decided to be  $0.0027 f_{applied} + 0.0312 = a$, where force applied is the x value and acceleration is the y value. this showed the positive correlation predicted to be true, and yielded an r^2 value .999.   since the r^2 value was so strong, we agreed with the line and results of both hypotheses.     

however, the model produced by the second part of the first experiment was the one we decided to focus on more in the second experiment. we looked at our model from the previous week, and analyzed its correlation to the model for theoretical acceleration ( $a =\frac{f}{m}$ ). we had .0027 * force applied + .0312. we said the .0027 (or c1) was the same as the value of 1 / mass. this was the case since the values seemed to match up and upon testing 1/ 300, we found it did equal to .0027. the question arose in the meaning of .0312 (the c2). our side of the room was designated to test if the angle of the track had any influence on the value. so, in the second experiment, we tested all 8 different forces from experiment 1 at the angles of 1, 2,  and 3 blocks in the positive and negative directions. this data, found in figures 3 and 4, gave us values and lines that told us wo things when compared to the line of 0 blocks used in figure 1. the first is that an increase in the negative angle increased the acceleration of the cart and increased the value of c2. the opposite results were shown of the positive angles. a positive angle lowered the value of c2. these two facts made sense. since an increase in the angle (positive angle) would add an upward incline to the track, the acceleration would be slower. a negative angle would create an downwards slope and increase the acceleration of the cart. both conclusions based on the data we correct, but how did the angle relate to the equation value c2. we decided that the value of c2 would be the static friction that stalls the cart momentarily when the air track is just started up. the greater the incline, the slower the acceleration will be.

in comparing our work and data with another group, seen in figure 5, the discrepancies were evident. i believe that these differences are due to the difference in tested masses and forces. this would also attributed to different experimental and random errors as well.

while no real experimentation was done with the magnets by our group, we examined the findings of another group, and their information is found in figure 6.

	error can always be present in a real world lab scenario. in this specific set of labs, we tried to discover the value of the c2 number in our model $a = c1 m + c2$, in which c2 was believed to be some sort of error. after the first lab date of feb 22, my group believed the number quantity of c2, which was found to be .0312, was the small value of friction that still impacted the cart as it rode along the air track. this is due to the idea that even though the mas should have had a 0 normal force to the track, this wasn’t the case the entire time it accelerated. the track had to start and become powerful enough to negate the normal force of the cart, which left some drag/friction between the cart and the track to be included in our acceleration equation. this was further backed up by the idea that the friction would be systematic error and result in consistently higher acceleration values. other errors in this lab included the possibility of incorrect measurements of the force applied or the mass of the cart. while the values were given to us, the possibility of the masses being slightly different could have added to the value of c2. these differences would be a systematic error. finally, when considering random error, we have to think about the possibility of incorrectly measuring the distance from the end of the track. this would be a +/- of 1 cm, and would be random error that could have impacted the c2 minutely. the errors of mass inconsistency could have been reduced by using a very accurate scale to measure the masses and use those values in our table and graphs. the error of distance difference would able to be resolved if the measuring tool was given a way to measure smaller values, such as a mm ruler.