conclusion:

in this lab the research questions being asked were “does the weight of the pendulum effect the period?”, “does the angle of inclination effect the period of the pendulum?”, and “does the length of the pendulum effect the period?”. in each experiment the variable contained within each of the three research questions was tested while the other two variables were kept constant. then using the data collected from these tests graphs were made to determine whether the variable effected the period of the pendulum. the claims made as a result of these tests were that the weight and angle of inclination of the pendulum does not affect the period and the only variable that does affect the period of the pendulum is the length of the pendulum. the length of the pendulum has a positive correlation with the period of the pendulum. there were no conditions found within our experiments where these claims were invalid. 

the theoretical mathematical model for a pendulum is $t=2$ pi * (l / g)^(1/2). the data collected fits this model because it was found that as length increases the period of the pendulum increases. therefore, the term under the square root in the mathematical model would be larger when there is a bigger length causing the overall period to be larger. the positive slope and positive correlation of the period vs. length graph also reflects this mathematical model. weight and angle of inclination are not included in the mathematical model meaning they don’t affect the period of the pendulum. the data collected reflects this as the weight and inclination were changed respectively and the values collected remained constant and there was a virtually horizontal line in between the points on the graph. 

there was random error from the human inconsistency in the exact timing of the period of the pendulum. there was systematic error that may have come from inaccurate measuring devices. to reduce random error more trials could be taken for data of the period of the pendulum and the average of the data taken would create a more accurate value. random error can be reduced by following instructions exactly as they are written and creating the same testing environment for each trial.

constraints in this experiment that could create lack of generalizability of results would be the inability to measure and/or create extreme weights, angle of inclinations, and lengths for the pendulum. these extreme situations could yield different results than when testing more moderate values for all of these variables.