conclusion:

research question: how does the acceleration of a system change when the mass changes?

after conducting the experiment, gathering the data, and creating the graphs my group was able to come up several conclusions about the impact that the system’s mass has on the acceleration. the conclusion the group drew up was that as the hanging weight was increased, the acceleration increased proportionately (same consistent slope). this conclusion is based off the results of figure 1. seen by the error bars in this same graph, the bigger the mass, the less likely that the same consistent proportionality will occur.

	with regards to comparing our data to that of other groups for both lab 5 and lab 6, there were a lot of similarities. in lab 5, with the data my group had from figure 1 and comparing it to that of other groups, 3 of the 5 groups had similar slopes (around 0.0028 or so). this supports our theory of how the slope is in relation to the acceleration vs the hanging mass. one difference was that some groups had theoretical equations, whereas my group had the $y=b + m x$ equation. 

	in lab 6, we were tasked to see how friction would change the acceleration. based off figure 5, we learned that the more friction was applied, the less acceleration (or smaller slope) there would be. looking at figure 7, another group tasked with the same job also produced graphs where the slope would be smaller- or closer to 0- when more friction was applied. one small piece of discrepancy between their graph and my group’s graph was that they had their graph in acceleration versus normal force form, whereas my group had the data in acceleration versus mass form. 

	we also compared our group with data from a group that saw how the slope would affect the acceleration, seen in figure 8. since we had two different controlling variables, the results would inevitably be somewhat different. unlike how increasing friction makes acceleration decrease, it is the opposite for when there is a bigger slope. the bigger the slope- or angle from which an object is released- the bigger the acceleration will be. the similarity between my group’s data and this group’s data is that, regardless of the controlling variable, the acceleration will change. 

	the theoretical value my group formed was $a=0.0024 f-0.0292$ $a = \frac{1.598}{m^{0.242}}$. c1 is equal to (1/m), $a=\frac{f}{m}$. our experimental error is c2 which ideally would be zero but is instead close to zero but not exactly zero. such a close value proves that the theoretical value is almost completely accurate.

	the scenario that would occur if a heavy string connected with the hanging weight of the cart would result in the system’s acceleration decreasing. if the string had mass, then its total mass would be equal to the mass of the string and the hanging mass. the total mass equals the net force divided by total mass.

	as with any experiments, this one probably produced some random and systematic errors. one certain possibility was when collecting the data on the computer. it was possible that there were instances, when finding the slope of the trendlines, that my group accidentally picked up dots that were not part of the actual test run, which would result in slightly altered slopes. this could be fixed by making sure to pick exactly only the dots which correlate to the test run. another possible random error would be to give the glider an incidental push, which would result in a slightly higher acceleration than intended. this could be solved by just releasing the glider and allow the hanging mass to let it accelerate. another possible [systematic] error was how the applied friction -the magnets- were placed. the magnets were unreliable and probably applied more friction to some sections of the glider more than others because they were uneven which would cause the applied friction force to not be totally accurate. this could have been improved by having two magnets- of equal length and weight- on each side of the glider to make sure that friction was applied across evenly. 

	finally, there were some possible constraints that would affect the generalizability of the experiment. one possible constraint that would affect the generalizability of the results would be the friction of the rope which slowed down the system’s acceleration and meant that the distance intervals were longer than supposed to be. this would result in velocities that are consistently bigger than what they should be. another constraint was that there were only so many bobs that we had to use. as a result, inherently the acceleration was capped off and we could not know if adding even a larger mass would make the system’s mass increase even more.