discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of this lab was to develop mathematical models that describe the behavior of a real system and to gain an understanding of each variable and numerical value in the models.  the experimental design plans from tables 1 and 2 explain the behavior of a system containing a resting mass and hanging mass.  for the first part of lab 5, the position of one bob was moved from the hanging mass to the resting mass for each run so that the overall mass of the system remained the same. because acceleration was determined using data studio, as described above, the applied force was calculated by multiplying the hanging mass by the acceleration due to gravity.  the results of this are shown in table 3.  the mathematical model in figure 1 shows a linear relationship, such that as the applied force on a system increases, the acceleration of the system increases when the total mass of the system is held constant. the y-variable is the acceleration, and the x-variable is the applied force or force due to the hanging mass.  the coefficient of the x-variable 2.9598 is the inverse of the resting mass. the y-intercept 0.0174 is the quotient of an unknown applied force and the resting mass. for the second part of lab 5, weights were added to the cart for each run while the applied force on the system and the hanging mass remained constant.  the results are shown in table 4.  the mathematical model is a power relationship showing a negative correlation between the resting mass and acceleration of the system. the y-variable is the acceleration and the x-variable is the resting mass.  the coefficient of the x-variable 0.291 represents the force on the hanging mass, i.e. tension.  the superscript on the x-variable -1.135, which is close to -1 to represent the inverse of hanging mass.  lab 6 was conducted by repeating the first part of lab 5 and tilting the track to three different heights to determine how changing the physical lab setting would impact the mathematical model.  the results are shown in tables 5-7 and figures 3-5.  in all three mathematical models, the coefficient in front of the x-variable remains generally the same, about 2.95, because the resting mass doesn’t change.  the y-intercept represents an unknown force caused by tilting the track.  the magnitude of the y-intercept increases as the tilt increases.  however, it is a negative value because this unknown force is opposing the motion of the cart from the applied force, thus overall decreasing the acceleration of the system (y).

	using what the variables and numerical values represent, the mathematical models support newton’s second law, force is the product of mass and acceleration, ($f = m a$).  by rearranging the equation to reflect the variables investigated in the experiment, the result is

the results of graphing the data are also consistent with newton’s second law.  as the applied force increased, the acceleration of the system increased, shown in figure 1.  as the mass of the cart increased, the acceleration of the system decreased, shown in figure 2.

groups 2 and 4 also investigated the impact of tilting the track.  the mathematical models from their results are shown in figures 6 and 7.  the models substantiate what was mentioned earlier for the meaning of the coefficient.  it remains generally the same because the resting mass doesn’t change.  however, the models by group 2 include a positive y-intercept.  this is possible if they tilted the track on its other side, meaning the unknown force caused by the tilt of the tracks works with the motion of the cart from the applied force, instead of opposing it, which increases the acceleration.  the y-intercepts in group 4’s models do not increase as the incline increases, which could be due to experimental error.

systematic errors in the experiment included air resistance and frictional force affecting the motion of the system. this could only be reduced by changing test conditions, such as conducting the experiment in a vacuum, or by taking air resistance and friction into consideration.  random errors include slow reaction time by the experimenter recording the velocity of the cart, which affects the acceleration of the system, but this was minimized greatly through utilizing data studio.  random errors could be reduced more by increasing the number of trials to make the slope of velocity vs. time graph closer to the true value of the acceleration.  constraints in the experiment are that the mathematical models and variables apply specifically to a system with a hanging mass and resting mass.  while the concepts of newton’s second law are still relevant to the motion of any system, the hanging mass is unique particularly when rearranging the equations and what each variable represents.