conclusion
the research question of discovering how force and mass affects acceleration was answered through these 2 labs by testing one with a constant system mass and no friction while the other had a constant system mass but also added friction to the process. there was also a test that included angle of track but once again we did not personally test this variable. when we look at the graphs and data from lab 5 above we see a steady decline in acceleration as we add weight to the cart and remove from the hanging mass. with an error of only .0006 this error was so small the error bars are negligible in the graph however they are present. our data is clear and we took a picture of other groups information to clarify ours as well as info from the track angle’s groups to see what their outcome was. 
the first picture of data also proves our point. their data shows that as the amount of magnets (friction) goes up, the acceleration goes down. their data shows that as the number of magnets goes up their acceleration decreased. similarly, their c2 value also increased as the amount of magnets increased, just like our data. the slope (c1) was the same, but the c2 value increased because this adds a positive number to a negative number in order to get an value closer and closer to zero as friction increases.
the second picture’s data is not easy to interpret as they do not have a conclusive sentence on what they gather from their data. i think what they are trying to get at is that when the track is tilted so that gravity has a positive effect on the forward motion of the cart (forward tilt) the acceleration will increase. if there is a backward tilt and the gravity is pulling the cart away from the pulley then the acceleration will decrease. the c1 value represents the average acceleration of the system. the values are reasonably close because if you look at the slope of the graph and our data points this matches up with the acceleration.
our theoretical equation $a=0.014 - 0.006 m$ which states essentially that as the mass increases the acceleration increases proportionally in the negative direction. we also know that in order to solve the $a=c f + c$ we must compute to solve for acceleration and compare each equation with varying numbers of magnets.

	all this said and done we find that our prediction of the more we increase the mass of mass 2, the acceleration of mass 1 will increase too is correct because as we added mass to the hanging mass the acceleration increased every time. although having no blatant errors during the experiment the one improvement i would suggest to increase conclusive evidence would be to do the experiment with angle of track as well as friction to see how that reacts just in an attempt to find out what comes out as data for that test would be interesting and possibly be an assistance for the report. our main constraints were time, being only able to test with friction and not angle of track, and by only testing friction with weak magnets that did not significantly work compared to how i personally expected. 
