discussion and conclusion

the purpose of these three experiments was to investigate the factors that affect the acceleration of a system. experiments 1 and 2 were experiments of the real system; that is that no other factors affected the acceleration except for the independent variable being investigated. as these conditions are somewhat unlikely in a real-world setting, experiment 3 was conducted. experiment three was to investigate how friction affected the acceleration as it is very hard to find a truly frictionless surface. 

the mathematical model in experiment 1 can be used as the frictionless model as it has the same conditions as experiment 3 if a trial was conducted to without any magnets. as you can see the b value is very small (see table 4), this value represents the friction from the track. in experiment 3 the b values continue to increase because when the magnets move close to the track the friction increases. the slopes of the graphs also begin to decrease this because the acceleration is at a lower rate due to the higher friction. as for experiment 2 this a power relationship rather than a linear like in experiment 1 and 3. the power relationship means that the mass of the system greatly decreases the acceleration from weight to weight. 
team 6 had the same hypothesis as us. saying that acceleration increased with applied force. their mathematical model was that as follows is  $y=1.8971 x - 0.058$ which is very similar to the mathmatial model in experiment 3, trial 3. in both our models the slope has decreased from the original “frictionless” slope and the b value has increased. this confirms that friction is proportional to the b value and that the acceleration decreases as friction increases. (pictured below in red). team 3 did not have the same hypothesis as us because they tested how the incline affected the acceleration not the friction, so their mathematical model was completely different then ours. (pictured below in green) however their b value still represents the friction of the slope as it is really small thus representing an almost frictionless surface. 						
random errors that could have occurred could have been from faulty measurements of weight due to human error, not enough trials could cause inaccurate data and timing between the induvial that turned on the track and the individual that recorded the data via the program. these errors could be reduced by running more trials, being precise and double cheking the weights of each system/bob, and a clear communication between the data recorder and the track starter. systematic errors is  added friction from the track, error from the program that recorded the date and unbalanced scale. these errors could be reduced by calculating the error caused by the systematic errors and accounting for that slight change in the data. 
the constraints that limit the generalization of these experiments is equipment. it would be difficult to duplicate this experiment without the exact same equipment.

the mathematical models in experiments 1 and 3 relate to newton’s second law; $f=m a$ because if you rearrange $y=2.7988 x-0.007$ (where y is acceleration and x is force) you get which is similar to  the only difference being that the .007 is slightly through the pure equation off this is because the track is not purely frictionless. the b value(2.7988) being m.