conclusion:
for the first experiment, one research question was posed: what impacts the period of a pendulum? various factors played a role in this experiment including the dependent variable, the period of the pendulum to complete the period, and independent variables which included length (m), mass (g), and angle (degrees).  for each experiment, an independent variable was tested with the other two variables as controls.  this is to observe the effect of the tested independent variable on the period of the pendulum.  after collecting and analyzing data, it was determined that the angle of release and the mass of the pendulum had a very small and insignificant effect on the period of the pendulum.  the length of the string was the only independent variable that had a strong influence on the amount of time (seconds).  from these conclusions, lab 03 was utilized to support this.  trials were conducted solely on the length independent variable to form more accurate conclusions (shown in table 7 & 8 and figure 4).  the best way to describe this relationship is that there is a positive correlation; the longer the string, the longer the period and vice versa.  figure 1 shows that length of the string has a positive linear relationship with the period of the pendulum.  from the data collected, the trials where mass and angle of release were independent variables, it demonstrated that both of these had little correlation with the period of the pendulum (shown in figure 2 & 3).  the data points also deviated far from the line of best fit.  based on these results from the experiment, it was determined that the only independent variable that had a significant effect on the period of the pendulum was the length of the string.

for lab 02, uncertainty of the experiment was analyzed to determine if there were any possible errors.  this included both random and systematic errors.  random errors from lab 01 included fluctuations in start/stop time when performing each trial, inconsistent length of string, and inconsistent release angles for each trial.  to minimize these errors, it is important to have only one person perform each trial.  before each trial, lab partners should discuss when exactly to press start and stop and the angle should be measured before every swing.  systematic errors within this experiment may include incorrect measurements of slotted weights by an uncalibrated scale, uncertainty with the measuring tape and slight differences with stop watches which could lead to variances in time. to minimize these systematic errors, it was important to calibrate all instruments and scales prior to measuring the weight and it is also important to check the efficiency of the watches used and to make sure each of the watches are the same kind.  

for experiment 3, the results from experiment 1 and the considerations from experiment 2 were used to test the hypothesis that the period of the pendulum is affected by the length of the string. a mathematical model was created based on the results of this experiment. after analyzing each figure using error bars, it was determined that the only correlation was between length of the string vs the period of the pendulum, therefore, in this experiment, the length of the string was the independent variable, the period was the dependent variable, and the mass (50g) and angle (20ยบ) were the control variables as shown in table 8.  a photogate was used for this test to obtain more accurate results.  based on the results as seen in figure 5, the best fit line for the correlation of the length vs period of the pendulum was power law, $y=0.98523712 x$ with an r2 value of 0.9959.  the theoretical mathematical model was $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ which corresponds to the length of 1.9936x0.4942 .  from looking at the graph and data, the points line up accurately from the curve fitting and therefore supports the conclusion that length of the string significantly affects the period of the pendulum.

there are some constraints to consider for this experiment.  for example, the length of string was only so long and if it was longer, there may have been more trials done with larger differences between each length to see just how much length has an affect on the period.  space is a large constraint with this type of testing.  longer string may have lead to larger differences in time which would give more confidence in the conclusions.  other constraints may include air resistance, time availability and resource availability.  if these constraints were addressed, more trials could have been conducted and more data available for conclusions.