discussion and conclusion 

	in this lab we tested the affects of force on the acceleration of a system. we tested different weights that changed the force applied. from those tests we found a mathematical model that represented the experiment. from that mathematical model we found that it was very close to newton’s $f = m a$ law. lab six then focused on investigating the difference between out model and newton’s law. we tested the angle that the cart went up the rail. 

	all three of our experiments played a part in out understanding of our model and its relation to newton’s second law. as we understand it our constants in our model’s all came from the force we applied to the cart. the coefficient of x, from lab five, comes from the mass that we held constant throughout the experiment making the values line up according to the mass on the cart when the mass of the system is held constant. looking up at all the graphs for lab five, it is evident that the more force applied the more acceleration the cart saw, along with that the constant mass of the system kept the data linear. the second part of the model that is not present in newton’s second law comes from unknown forces that were examined in lab six. 




	as seen above are two different groups findings. group three (left) did the same experiment we did except their angle was going down instead of up. group five (right) did an experiment which involved adding magnets to the cart to increase friction between the cart and the rail to prove that friction as the unknown force acting on the cart. group three’s results line up with our results. bigger changes in angle lead to bigger changes in the unknown constant. similarly group five’s results show that the more magnets they added the slower their acceleration was along with the unknown constant changing. this leads me to understand that there were multiple unknown forces acting on the cart and some that may not have been experimented on in this lab. it is clear however that the more angle that was given or the more friction that was added lead to a change in the unknown constant. 

	the systematic error in out experiment was evident from our model. the unknown force that was discussed above was evidence of the error involved while demonstrating newton’s second law. this was addressed by doing another experiment based around controlling the unknown force or now called the error of the experiment. ways to reduce too much friction would be to make sure the air is strong enough to keep the cart completely off the track and to keep angle from affecting the cart we would need to first make sure the rail is level and then proceed with the experiment. 

	a constraint in this experiment was the unknown force that showed up in the mathematical models. this is a constraint because it kept us from generalizing our mathematical models. the models we found were specific to the situation however could not be used even for other experiments of the same type because the unknown forces will be different. the unknown force changed  and therefore is not able to be used in other situations. 

	our models from the lab five follow the standard  which is consistent with  because the equations are identical except for newton’s law holds true while there are no other external forces acting on it. as seen in lab six there were external forces acting on the object whether it be the angle of the rail or the friction between the rail and the cart. the same holds true for the models found in lab six. the difference is that we were specifically testing that unknown force acting on the cart. that makes that unknown force variable and change from graph to graph proving that the angle did have a part to play in the unknown force. 

	if the experiment had been done with a heavy string, the acceleration for each trial would have been slowed. the mass of the system would have been increased therefore requiring more force in order to move it the same speed.