discussion and conclusion:

	the objective of these three labs was to determine the factors that affect the period of a pendulum. the three main factors of a pendulum are the length of the string used (measured in cm), the angle of release (measure in degrees), and the mass of the weight (measured in grams). three separate experiments were done to test each factor. first the mass and angle were held constant at 50g and 25° respectively in order to test the effect the length has. three different lengths were tested, and the data showed that as the length of the string increases so does the period (see data above). next the length and mass were held constant at 20cm and 50g respectively. the angle of release was tested at three different angles and it was found that the angle had negligible effect on the period. lastly the length and angle of release were held constant at 20cm and 25° respectively. three different masses were tested, and it was found that the mass also has negligible effect on the period. looking at the graphs of all this data, it is easy to see that the graph of length has a positive slope showing that it is directly proportional to the period. on the other hand, the graphs of the angle and the mass show almost no slope meaning that they do not affect the period. the mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is  our data supports this model as the length was the only factor we stated affected the period. along with this, the equation of the trendline for our graph of length supported by this model. the other two factors tested (angle and mass) do not appear in this equation which shows that they do not affect the period. looking back at the graphs of the angle of release and mass, both have generally a slope of 0 showing they don’t affect the period. throughout the three labs there were a few systematic and random errors that occurred. during the first lab period, the length was not measured to the center of the mass it was measured to the top of it, this resulted in a systematic error of our lengths being slightly shorter than the actual value and was fixed in the following labs. two random errors also occurred in the first lab period. the pendulum was released by hand and the angle of release could have been slightly over or under the measured angle. along with this, the timing of the period could have been slightly off due to the time it takes for the timer to start and stop the stopwatch. while the systematic error could easily be fixed by measuring to the center of the mass, the random error requires more precise equipment to be fixed. due to the nature of the experiment and the equipment provided, there may be some constraints that limit the generalizability of our results. the timing and release of the pendulum both include random error causing the overall results to be slightly different than the actual values. while this doesn’t affect the results in a big way it causes a degree of uncertainty and impacts the overall generalization of the results.