
discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this experiment was to see what variables affect the acceleration of a system. our group tested both adding mass to the system, changing the location of the mass, and changing the angle at which the cart would travel. 

the first variable that was tested was the location of the mass. when more mass was moved to the pulley the acceleration stayed constant as seen by the slope of the graph. we concluded that adding more mass to the pulley increased the acceleration. the second variable we tested was increasing the total mass. when more mass was added to the cart the acceleration decreased. this is because the pulley has more weight to get moving and is slower for increased mass. we concluded that adding mass to the system decreased the acceleration of the system. the third variable tested was the inclination of the air track. when the angle of the track was changed the acceleration between the 3 trials was the same, only being off by .05 between the 3. we concluded that changing the incline of the system did not change the acceleration. if a heavy string was used to hold the mass, then the weight of the string would have to be added to the weight of the system and accounted for in the calculations. the resulting acceleration from using a heavy string would be the same because the system mass would not change, it could however affect the data reader by creating friction and throwing off the data. 
the data received from other groups matches our results collected from the experiment.  this data was collected from groups from another class due to not being able to receive data from the groups in our specific lab class.  the results, however, do match with the results produced from the experiment ran in our class. all of the findings by the other teams support the data and conclusions we found. all of our graphs were similar in shape and agreed with our conclusions. the other groups found the same results from doing the same experiment giving our data added credibility. 



random error in the experiment can be blamed on human error while testing. not putting the car at the same starting point could have affected the data. no other human error could have affected the data other than the car positioning. systematic error in the experiment could have come from many things. the bobbers used as the mass could have been different masses, which would throw off the data. we measured a few of them and decided to use 4.95grams as a constant mass for each bobber. also, the length of track used could not have given the car enough space to truly accelerate. the data points were only collected from 700-300cm on the track, only giving 400cm to collect the data.  this could change the overall slope of the line and either decrease or increase calculated values given the mathematical model.

 one constraint of the lab is the length of the air track, another is the amount of mass used in the experiment, and not being able to increase or decrease/increase the acceleration of gravity in the lab. we could only use the provided amount of mass to test the system, and the incline was only tested at 3 points; flat, positive, and negative slope. more testing with the slope could be done with different inclines and more tests. if there was an option to adjust the force of gravity by using a vacuum or another procedure, then we could test for many more variables.
the mathematical models found from these experiments support newtons second law by keeping the constants equal to the same unit.  also, they are all based off the force within the experiment.  just like in the equation $f=ma$ the acceleration is based off the force and mass within the system.  when the mass is added to the system the equation turns into a polynomial.  the addition of mass to the system adds a new variable which is the x^2 within the equation.  this accounts for the changing mass of the system and thus explains why the equation for addition of mass a polynomial is.