discussion and conclusion

     this experiment was performed to determine what impacts the period of a pendulum. three factors were tested is  mass, angle of release, and length of the pendulum. we attempted to do this experiment with four total experiments, with three being over separate factors and one being over a factor already tested. the first three experiments each tested a different factor and its effect on the period of a pendulum. in experiment 1, we tested the impact mass (kg) has on the period of a pendulum (s). it was found that as mass (kg) decreased, the period of the pendulum (s) did not change while keeping all other factors constant. this can be seen in table 3.2 and figure 1 which show no pattern, in the negative or positive direction occurring. also, figure 1 shows the error bars intersecting. from the data collected, we can claim that there is no correlation between the mass (kg) and the period of a pendulum (s).                                                                                                     

     in experiment 2, we tested the impact angle of release (°) has on the period of a pendulum (s). it was found that as angle of release (°) increased the period of the pendulum (s) did not change while keeping all other factors constant. this can be seen in table 3.6 and figure 3 which show no pattern, in the negative or positive direction occurring. also, figure 3 shows the error bars intersecting. from the data collected, we can claim that there is no correlation between the angle of release (°) and the period of a pendulum (s). 

      in experiment 3, we tested the impact length of the pendulum (m) has on the period of a pendulum (s). it was found that as length of the pendulum (m) decreased the period of the pendulum (s) also decreased while keeping all other factors constant. this can be seen in table 3.4 and figure 2 which shows a positive correlation. figure 2 shows an almost linear trendline and no overlap of error bars which backs up there being correlation between the length of a pendulum (m) and the period of the pendulum (s). from the data collected, we can claim that there is positive correlation between the length of a pendulum (m) and the period of the pendulum (s). the error in conducting experiment 1, 2, and 3 was small, as the vertical error bars were only ± 0.054927. these small error bars help to prove that our data is accurate and that our claims are accurate. 

     to be sure that our data was accurate, experiment three was repeated, but this time with a photogate. this was to ensure a reduction in overall error of the experiment and to confirm that our claim is accurate. the photogate reduced our error from ± 0.054927, to ± 0.001. from table 3.9 and figure 4, we can conclude that our prior claim of the length of a pendulum having a positive correlation to the period of the pendulum, is accurate. experiment 4 also gives us an accurate trendline and mathematical model of the period of the pendulum. the theoretical model of the period of the pendulum is is 

$t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$

where t is period, l is lengtht, g is gravity. this can be compared to our mathematical model from experiment 4 which equals is  $y=2.0058 x^{0.5137}$. our model can be rearranged to better fit the theoretical model by changing the letters of the variables to match the theoretical model is  

$t=2.0058 l^{0.5137}$

l^0.5137 almost equals square root of l which matches well with the theoretical model. through the limitations of our experiment, we were only able to take into account the length of the period while the theoretical model takes into account the length and the earth’s gravity. to prove that our data is accurate and that our mathematical data supports the theoretical model, a point of (1, 2) from figure 4 will be used. 1 will be plugged into both equations and both equations should result in $t=2$. our mathematical model gives us $t=2$.0058 and the theoretical model gives us a $t=2$.007092. from this we can claim that our mathematical model supports the theoretical model for angles less than 20 degrees and that our data from experiment 4 is very accurate. 
     random error of experiments 1, 2, and 3 include inaccurate readings from the stopwatch timing the period. this was reduced by having two people time the period and was further reduced with the photogate in experiment 4. other random errors include the length of the pendulum being inaccurately measured, and the angle of release being inaccurately judged. this was reduced by having multiple trials for each experiment. systematic error of these experiments includes the scale being improperly calibrated and the photogate being improperly set-up in experiment 4. this was reduced by having someone time the period with a stopwatch. 
possible constraints of this experiment include is  the time of each lab session, the amount of trials able to be performed for each experiment, the length of the string, not being able to take into account of more variables such as gravity, and the amount of mass able to be put on the pendulum.