discussion and conclusion: 

	the research question investigated during these labs was “what impacts the acceleration of the glider?” for this we came up with different variables that we though could potentially impact the acceleration. first, we though a change in the applied force may have an effect. the results for this variable are listed above as “variable 1 is  force applied” while the data is plotted within “graph 1 is  applied force vs acceleration.” from this experiment it can be concluded that with more force applied (hanging weight) the acceleration will increase, as long as the mass of the system stays constant. these two variables are positively correlated and can be seen from the linear trendline placed on graph 1, which the error bars for this graph were set to +/- 0.001 and cannot be seen, showing little error within the data. 
	data from other groups were obtained throughout the experiments and can be used to agree with or refute our findings. the data from “group 1” is fairly similar to the data of my group. the only major difference is that our  values have the same numbers but have different meanings since theirs is 0.0028 and ours was 2.87. these differences can be from calculation errors when figuring out the force applied by the hanging weight. each bobber on the end of the string weighed 5 grams, so my group did 5/1000 to get the weight into kilograms, then we multiplied by the force of gravity (9.8m/s). so, i believe our calculations for our equation is the true equation. 
	the theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system can be shown as $a=\frac{f}{m}$. so, it should work out that we could plug our force applied (hanging weight) into this equation and divide it by the total mass of the system to get the acceleration of the glider. then relating this to the mathematical model, $a=c1 f+c2$, would mean that is 1/, so 1/ * f is the same thing as f/. we said that  could be due to friction or the angle of the track when solving for these equations. our theoretical equation was $a=2.8 f-0.047$. so, as long as the mass of the system is being used when calculating the acceleration, the theoretical and mathematical model should show the acceleration of the glider based off the force applied and mass of the system. both of these models show a positive correlation between the force applied and the acceleration. 
	the enhanced theoretical equation can be stated as, $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$, which is more less the same as newton’s second law $f=m a$. from this equation it is adding the force applied and the possible force of friction and then dividing that by the total mass of the system. so, this enhanced theoretical equation agrees with newton’s laws, although it does not fully agree with our results. this is because our group tested acceleration with changing the angle of the track and found there to be no correlation between the two. while other groups tested for friction on the glider vs acceleration and many groups stated that this did not have an effect either. therefore, meaning that there is no external force applied to the glider when it is on the air track and the only force effecting acceleration being the force of the hanging weight. 
	from the results stated above, having a heavy string connecting the glider and hanging weight would not change the acceleration. this is in part because it has to deal with the total mass of the system and as long as the same heavy string is being used for each trial then the acceleration should be constant. the only reason a heavier string would cause the acceleration to differ drastically from a light string is if this string was causing friction between itself and the pulley being used, friction between the sting and pulley would cause the acceleration for the glider to differ, in this case of creating friction would cause the glider to accelerate at a slower rate. 
	random errors within these labs could have come from us as the experimenters misreading the measurements on the scale. this was minimized by having each person in the group check the weights to make sure it was not overlooked. another source of random error could have come from only taking one trial for each force applied and or changed weight. taking multiple trials and averaging them would have helped minimize random error within the experiments. a source of systematic error could have arisen from our track or glider potentially being dented. this would have caused the accelerations for each trial to show the same error, so would not affect the outcome of our data, but could cause a disagreement when discussed with another group. although, i do not believe this was the case, but could be a potential source of systematic error. 
some constraints within this experiment would have been the limited supplies or the time constraint. with having limited supplies our group was only able to test for the angle of the track and not for friction in the second half of the experiment. being able to test for both would have given us a better understanding of variables that have an effect on acceleration. if this experiment would have granted more time, then our group could have brainstormed more and came to the conclusion that we should run multiple trials for each force applied. this would have allowed us to put more time into the setup of the experiment as well as more time to run the experiment to ensure error was minimized throughout.