discussion and conclusion:

	the big question for this lab is how the period of the pendulum is affected by testing different variables. the variables tested for this lab were the mass of the plumb bob, length of the string, and the angles dropped. in the lab we test each variable by doing three different tests. the first test we did was alter the mass of the plumb bob and see how it effects the period we did this test because in the equation of force due to gravity it is mass multiplied by gravity. when tested we made sure to keep the drop angle (60 degrees) the same and the length of the string (48.625cm) the same. we did this to make sure that we were only changing one variable. we tested 5 different masses for the plumb bob. after conducting the experiment, we can conclude that we cannot prove that the greater the mass the shorter the period because. by looking at the graph (table 1c) we can see that it looks like the period changed. but between each of the points we can clearly see that the error bars overlap, because of this we cannot conclude that the mass affects the period of the period. therefore, form this experiment we must conclude that the mass of the plumb bob does not affect the period of the pendulum. 

the next test we did is we tested how the angle dropped would affect the period because in our minds the greater the distance it dropped the faster it might go. when testing this variable, we made sure that we kept the mass (130g) and length of string (48.625) constant. by testing the angle dropped from 3 different angles we were able to create table 2b and table 2c. by looking at table2c, we can look and observe that the period gets bigger as we increase the angle dropped, but we cannot confirm it because we have error bars that overlap. because we have error bars that overlap this means that there is a chance the actual value for those points is anywhere between those error bars. therefore, we must conclude that the angle the pendulum is dropped has no affect on the period. 

lastly, we tested how the length of string affected the period. the reason we did this is because we thought that when we kept the angle and weight the same, as we increased the length of the string, we would also increase the length of the path it has to take in order to complete one period. when we tested, we made sure to keep the mass (130g) and the angle dropped (10 degrees) the same for each trial. after completing all trials, we were able to create table 3b and table 3c, by looking at both we can conclude that there is a change in the period based off the length of the string. you can determine this by looking at table 3c and seeing that there is an equation for the line created. we can also tell because we can see that none of the error bars overlap meaning the no one point could be equal to another point. therefore, we can conclude that the length of the string does affect the period of the pendulum

	the theoretical model for the period of the pendulum is the equation t. when you graph this equation with length in meters and gravitational acceleration in meters per second you will get a similar graph to table3c. this is because the only variable that can be changed in the equation is the length of the string or length of the pendulum. our data fits this theoretical mathematical model because we found the same thing you could determine based off the equation. there is no variable for the mass of the object, or the angle dropped therefore they must be negligible which we found in our experiments. 

	in this lab there were plenty of errors. there are more random errors than there are systematic. the random errors in this lab were human error that happen throughout the lab. that could be us hitting the stop watch early instead of waiting for its full range of motion. not being as perfectly precise when dropping the pendulum and starting the watches, even not measuring correctly and sometimes the pendulum wouldn’t take the same flight path every time. a way we could help prevent these is by using robots that can accurately drop record and measure period of the pendulum and all its variables. the systematic errors that happened in the lab are, the string could be stretched or frayed over its use during the lab. the scale might not have been balanced when we were weighing our weight. in order to prevent these, we could use more accurate measuring devices and a stronger string.

	the constraints of the experiments were that did not have the most accurate measuring devices when i came to calculate the period of the pendulum. for example, we could not determine the exact time the pendulum was dropped which limits our results. also, for calculating the mass of the objects, we could only be so accurate, but we could not be 100% accurate with everything tested. this will result in our results not being properly scaled or being off causing our slopes of our lines to be wrong.







all data and graphs were taken from lab 01, 02, and 03.