discussion

the research question being investigated in this lab is what factors will affect the time it takes a pendulum to complete a period? 

first off, the length of the string was tested, and it was proven by the figure 1 graph that the length of the string does affect the period of a pendulum. in each case, we kept the mass and angle of release the same but changed the length of string that was attached to the pendulum. by that data in the figure 1 graph, you can see that the independent variable of length will change the amount of time to complete a period. as the length of string increases, so does the amount of time to complete a period. next, in the figure 2 graph of angle of release vs. time, it was also proven that the angle of release affects the period of a pendulum. as seen in the graph, as the angle of release increases, so does the amount of time to complete a period. unlike figure 1 and figure 2, the figure 3 graph, there is no correlation between the mass of an object and the period of the pendulum. from figure 3, an increase in mass did not affect the amount of time since each of the data points follows a random curve and has no pattern. 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ where t is time for the period to be completed, l is the length of string, and g is acceleration due to gravity. in the figure 1 graph, the mathematical equation our group obtained was $t=0.2003 l^{0.5008}$. this data fits almost perfectly with the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum, because our equation states that x (length of string) is to be taken to the ½ power, which is the same as square rooting x (as seen in theoretical model of sqrt(l)). as for the .2003 in our equation, this is equivalent to 2(pi) / sqrt(g) because that is in m/s^2, however our equation is in cm/s^2. in converting our cm/s^2, our coefficients ended up being the same!

random errors present with the experiment are due to the setup of the pendulum and the equipment that was used. the timers that were used in the first two labs had a level of variation but in the third week of this experiment, we used a photogate system that triggered when the pendulum swung through, and then stopped when the pendulum came back through, therefore measuring a period. this was much more accurate and precise than using a human to start and stop a stopwatch. the systematic error of a not accurate timing system was fixed by using the photogate. 

constraints in this pendulum experiment is how we were not able to read what other factors may have contributed to the period like what type of string or twine could be used to attach the weight too, or the extent of how long our string was.