conclusion:
	the research question being investigated in this lab is "what factors will affect the period of a pendulum?", and the three factors that were chosen to be investigated are the mass of the hanging object, the length of the string that the object hangs from, and the angle that the object is released at. it was claimed that all three of these factors would affect the period of a pendulum, however this was proven to be untrue for the mass, and partially for the angle of release. the length of the string always directly affects the period of a pendulum, as seen in fig. 3 there is a positive, direct relationship between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum. meaning, as the length of the string increased, the period of the pendulum increased as well. as seen in fig. 1, the mass that is attached at the end of the string does not affect the pendulum. the graph shows an essentially straight line, which suggests no correlation between the mass and the period. the period is only affected by the angle of release at certain angles, which is somewhat difficult to see in fig. 5, however it should not be affected for degrees less than 20. 

	for the final lab, the only factor to consistently affect the period of a pendulum had been discovered to be the length of the string, so that factor was further tested. a photogate was used to obtain more accurate measurements in this stage of the lab, and the resulting graph of the collected data can be seen in fig. 4. and the recorded data used to create the graph in table 6. as fig. 4 shows, the mathematical relationship between the length of string (in meters) and the period of a pendulum (in seconds) is $t=0.9970814 l$. the data falls very close to the trendline as shown by the r2 value of 0.9999 which is very close to 1. the mathematical model for a pendulum is $t=1.0 l$ and the experimental period found which is shown in fig. 4 is $t=0.9970814 l$ which puts the experimental period very close to the mathematical model. the data for the angle of release and the mass of the object as seen in fig. 1 and fig. 5 do not match the theoretical model as there is no real correlation between the two. outside of the range of 20 degrees for the angle of release appears to have a somewhat linear relationship, however our data does not provide concrete evidence of this.

	in the third session of lab, a photogate was used to reduce error greatly as the human error involved in the first two experiments greatly impacted results and made it difficult to see the trends in data. an example of systematic error involved may be the way that the string length was measured. the way that the string was measured was by measuring the top of the string to the center of mass of the weight on the end, and since this is not clearly marked it is an easy mistake to improperly measure the length. the string also stretched as more weight was added, and the string needed to be measured after adding any additional weight for accurate data collection. random error may include any human involvement in timing such as release of the pendulum or the manual stopwatch time collection. another systematic error may include the weight not being exactly the mass that is advertised on it, and since it was labelled as 50g or 100g or whatever the mass may be, they were not weighed to double check this information. this, however, is not extremely important to the overall results since the mass does not affect the period of a pendulum anyways.

	the largest constraint to this experiment that limited the generalizability and accuracy of the results is the time restraint. if more time had been allowed to complete more trials, more data could have been collected and the trends in data and results could have been more clearly visible in the resulting data. the fact that the angle of the release does affect the period in some ranges but is not clearly visible in the graph and data is not ideal and makes it rather difficult to prove whether or not there is any relation. the photogate significantly decreased the error detected but was not implemented until the last lab, and that is definitely a constraint because the amount of random human error involved in measuring the periods in the first lab made the results almost unusable, and therefore a bit of a waste of lab time especially given that lab periods are already quite short for the standards of a lab. it was not until the photogate was implemented that the results were clearly visible, and an actual trend could be detected that then a mathematical model could be created for.