discussion and conclusion

the main objective of this lab was to experiment with a pendulum, and decide whether angle of release, mass of the object, or string length affect the period of the pendulum. we conducted three different experiments, testing three different variables. throughout the experiment, the period was the dependent variable. the independent variables were the mass, string length, and angle of release. when one was tested, the other two stayed constant. for our test we predicted that the string length would affect the period. after gathering data from three different trials, and plotting them on a graph, we found that the string length does indeed affect the period of a pendulum. the graph showed a constant upward trend. we concluded that the longer the string length, the longer the period assuming mass and angle of release are constant. 

our second test was using the mass as the independent variable. we predicted that the mass would affect the period. after testing and gathering data, it was easy to conclude that mass does not affect the period of a pendulum, and that we were wrong in our prediction. this was easily seen by the graph, and to our surprise we got the same period of 1.52 seconds for three different weights. in the final test, we used the angle of release as the independent variable. as we gathered data, the period changed as the angle increased. this change however was not constant, with no constant trend seen on the graph. we concluded this to be from experimental error, because we were timing with stopwatches and at times our readings could have been accurate. we also used an angle of 90 degrees, and this caused the pendulum to jerk at the release which could also cause inconsistencies with the results. the change in period was also not a significant amount. with this in consideration, we concluded that the angle of release does not affect the period of a pendulum. these experimental errors could be reduced by using a smaller angle of release when mass and string length were the independent variables, and to use a more accurate form to time the period.

the theoretical equation for period of a pendulum is given as $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. t being the period, l the string length, and g gravity. through this equation, we can see that angle and mass are neglected. we can also see that increasing the length will indeed increase the period. we were able to conclude this with our results. more errors that should be noted are that the angle of release was not measured accurately because a protractor was held at the top of the pendulum, and we read it with our eyes. we also did not measure the length to the center of the weight, we measured to the end of the string. we did this throughout the first lab however, so it is fair to say that we can still draw conclusions based off our data. the constraints in this lab were that we were not given equipment to make precise measurements, which caused a level of uncertainty to our results. this was proved in our second experiment, where we were given a counter that could take precise measurements for the period. this can be seen by just one trial with the counter, seen at the end of the data. the elapsed time for the period is accurate, given by the mean and standard deviation. the error bars in the graph are also almost non-existent. in conclusion, there were experimental and systematic errors throughout our lab, but from the data we can conclude that only the string length affects the period of a pendulum. this can be confirmed by the theoretical equation.