discussion and conclusion- 

	the purpose of the lab was to create a mathematical model to understand the variables and their numerical values as well as describe the behavior of real systems. to determine the mathematical model three experiments were conducted to show correct correlation. for the first experiment the hanging mass and acceleration were compared to test the hypothesis that different hanging masses affected the acceleration. the mathematical model found during the experiment $a=0.0287 m - 0.029$. the model was found from the graph 1- hanging mass vs acceleration, $=0.28$ and -0.029 is loss from friction. the model’s calculations find the resultant acceleration of the system. the next experiment the mass on the cart and acceleration were compared to test the hypothesis that mass of the cart affected the acceleration.  the mathematical model created was $a=m^2 e^{-07} - 0.0019*m + 1.159$. for the second experiment the hanging mass was kept constant and the mass of the cart was increased on each test to find a correlation between mass on cart and acceleration. the hypothesis was proven showing that as mass on the cart increased the acceleration decreased. the final experiment was done to compare the friction on the system and the resultant acceleration. during this experiment magnetic sticks were added to the cart to increase friction and the resultant accelerations were found. from the results of the experiment three trend lines were found for the three lines on graph 3. the mathematical models for the trendlines were $a= 0.0316 m-0.0765$, $a= 0.0264 m – 0.0041$, and $a=0.0226 m – 0.0297$.  the models prove the hypothesis that as friction increases the acceleration decreases. this is shown in table 3, the values multiplied by the mass in these models decreased as friction increased. to confirm the results the hypothesis, data, and mathematical models of another group were compared with our data. the groups data confirmed the hypothesis and data that our group had collected was correct. during all 3 experiments there was both random and systematic error. some of the error in the testing was from the way the friction was added, the friction had no numerical value which allows for the magnetic strips to by slightly different masses. being able to calculate these values would allow for more accurate calculations. also, if there were more options for magnetic sticks there would be more variability in the testing allowing for less error and more accurate data. another cause for error was the possibility for inaccuracy while timing the experiments. the timing could be slightly different for each test and there could be error between starting and stopping times. the mathematical models consistently aligned with newton’s 2nd law, $f = m a$. the models from the experiment show that the force on the system was dependent on the mass and acceleration of the system which is newton’s 2nd law.