discussion and conclusion:

	as mentioned previously, the goal of this lab was to determine the effects of changes in mass, length, and angle of release had on the period of a pendulum. for the first experiment, the goal was to test what sort of effect mass had on the period of a pendulum. to test this, different masses were added to the end of a length of string that was kept at a constant length and at a constant release angle. several trials for each of three different masses  (110g, 190g, and 250g) were conducted and the averages of the trials were calculated for each mass and then placed into graph 1.2. in this graph, it can be seen that the error bars overlap greatly with each other, so as a result, there is no noticeable correlation according to our data that can prove that changes in mass will have an effect on the period of a pendulum, so our prediction for this part of the experiment turned out to be incorrect since we expected there to be a direct relationship between the two.

	for the second part of the experiment, the angle of release of a pendulum was tested to see if it impacted the period of a pendulum. to test this, the angle was altered to three different angles (25, 50, and 75 degrees) while keeping the string length and mass attached to the string constant throughout every trial. after performing five trials for each angle, the averages for each angle were calculated and then placed into graph 2.2. as can be seen in this graph, the error bars overlap, just as the error bars in the testing of mass did. therefore, the conclusion of this part of the experiment would have to be that there is not enough supporting evidence that there is a relationship between changes of angle of release and the resulting period of a pendulum. thus, our prediction for this part of the experiment also turned out to be incorrect since we predicted that there would indeed be a relationship between the angle of release and period of a pendulum.

	for the third and final part of this experiment, the length of string was examined to see if it affected the period of a pendulum. similar to the previous two parts of this experiment, the length of string was changed to three different lengths (10, 15, and 20 in) and the mass and angle of release were held constant for every trial. for each of the lengths, five trials were performed and the average period of each length was calculated. these averages were then plotted on graphs 3.2 and 3.4. as can be seen in this graph unlike the other two though, the error bars do not overlap at any point. therefore for this trial, there is enough supporting evidence to say that there is a positive relationship between the length of string and the resulting period of the pendulum. 

	the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is is   where t is the period of the pendulum, l is the length of the string, and g is the acceleration due to gravity. the data that was collected in this experiment supports this equation since the results show that there is a relationship between length of string, but no such relationship of angle of release or mass added to the pendulum. this again was supported in the graphs that show error bars overlapping in graphs 1.2 and 2.2, but no overlap in graph 3.2 or 3.4 which was the graph that showed a relationship between length of string and period of the pendulum. 

	in this experiment, mostly the only error that occurred was random error as can be seen in the slightly scattered data in each of the three data tables. this error was likely due to the reaction time of the person holding the stopwatch as it is difficult to determine exactly when a moving object passes a given point. this error was reduced as though by making an attempt to use the bar that was holding up the pendulum as a reference point for when to start and stop the timer. when the pendulum first passed the pole, the timer was started, and it was allowed to pass the pole once, and when it got back to the pole for the third time, the timer was stopped to record the period. this error was reduced even further in day three of the lab when a motion sensor was used to determine the period when only length was tested. another source of random error could have occurred in the angle of release because after the protractor was pulled away, the person holding the string could have moved it slightly and this could affect the period of the pendulum as well. to further reduce this error, a device could be designed to always drop the pendulum from the exact same angle so that this error will not occur.