discussion

the overall research question for this experiment was to determine what impacts the period of pendulum. when the mass was the independent variable, the claim that mass does not affect the period of the pendulum held true. looking at the period vs. mass graph, the data points for the most part fell in a horizontal line. the error bars also fell within the horizontal trend. furthermore, the average periods were around 1.30 seconds, which supports the fact that a horizontal line could be applied and go through every point on the period vs. mass graph.

 the next experiment, where the length of the string was the independent variable, supported the claim that a relation does exist between the string length and the period of the pendulum. not only does the period vs. string length graph demonstrate a linear trend, but the photogate system experiment, where the error in time was almost negligible, also depicted a noticeable trend between the string length and the period. additionally, the error bars show the same linear relationship on the period vs. string length graph. looking at the trend between string length and the period further, there is some overlap between error bars. therefore, a degree of uncertainty does exist in determining the correlation between the string length and the period.

the final experiment, in which the angle of release was the independent variable, supported the claim that there is a relationship between the angle of release and the period of a pendulum. the average values in the table of data for this experiment suggested that the period increased as the angle of release increased. the average period increased by 0.16 seconds as the angle increased from 45 degrees to 80 degrees. a minor overlap does occur in the error bars in the data. however, this small overlap was most likely due to differences in human reaction times during the stopwatch timings.

the theoretical equation for length was is  2*pi*(square root (length/gravity)). the mathematical model that was generated during lab was is  $t=0.4036 l^{0.348}$ where t is the period in seconds and l is the string length is centimeters. the exponent for the theoretical equation was 0.5 while the mathematical exponent was 0.3489. these two quantities are within 0.1511 of each other, suggesting that the mathematical model follows close to the theoretical equation. comparing the coefficient of the theoretical equation (0.2007) to the one generated during lab (0.4036), the two are within 0.2029 of each other. the r^2 value was 0.9924. the trendline matched the data 99.24% of the time.  these quantities are rather close in magnitude, suggesting that the theoretical model is supported by the mathematical model generated from the lab results.

one constraint in this series of experiments was the number of mass rings given. the restriction on the amount of mass rings suggests that large masses would still yield the same results as the amount of low masses. this contributes to the generalizability of the data, specifically to the claim that the amount of mass does not exhibit any relationship with the period. another constraint was the number of stopwatches that were given. if more stopwatches were supplied, more members in the group could have been taking time measurements. as a result, it is possible that the average time periods would be closer since outlier data would be less probable. furthermore, the stopwatches are only accurate to a hundredth of second which could also contribute to differences in the period times.

discussion continued is  



regarding the random error in these experiments, a possible source could have been from the use of the stop watches. this could have been due to differences in human reaction times. these inconsistencies in time could result in time values both too high and too low in relation to the true period value. to reduce random error, more data could be collected. the increase in the quantity of data increases the likelihood that outlier data values would be averaged out in the long run. the triple beam balance could have been a source for systematic error depending if the mass measurements were taken after the balance was in the correct starting position. additionally, the more the triple beam balance is used, the more likely systematic error is to be present due to the equipment being used for so many times. systematic error could be reduced by checking the starting position of the triple beam balance before massing objects or by using a relatively new triple beam balance.


