discussion and conclusion:

the research question being researched in this lab was what impacts the period of a pendulum?

the 3 experiments addressed the research question by changing different variables in the experiment. as shown in the three graphs in lab 1, changing different variables cause different changes in period length. graph 1 showed that mass had little to no effect on the period length, graph 2 showed that increasing the drop angle increases the period length, and graph 3 showed that increasing the length of the string also increased the period length. we also defined the uncertainty of our measurements to make better conclusions. the uncertainty of the data in graph 1 validated our conclusion that mass does not affect the period of the pendulum. the uncertainties in graphs 2 and 3 also validated our conclusions that the drop angle and the length of the string cause the period of the pendulum to increase since the data in both graphs is increasing and leaving the uncertainty zone of the earlier points in the graph. we also used more precise methods to get a better representation of the data. in lab 3, we used a photogate to measure the time of the period length which showed a more accurate representation of the length of the string’s effect on the period of the pendulum. graph 1 in lab 3 shows a power curve relationship between the length of the string and the period of a pendulum.

the mathematical model that we determined for our length of the string vs period of a pendulum data was a power curve relationship. this fit our data because as the length of the string got longer and longer, the period of the pendulum got increasingly larger as well. this relationship was determined with having a constant drop angle and mass of the object on the string. through sharing our data and findings with other lab groups, we determined that other groups made the same conclusions based on their data that we did.  

for the data used in labs 1 and 2, the data mostly contained random errors. this was because of our imprecise ways of measuring the time, drop angle, and length of the string. we were able to reduce the error of the time by using the photogate in lab 3, but we didn’t reduce the error of measuring the length of the string of the drop angle. to reduce the error of the length of the string, we could have marked an endpoint at the middle of the mass instead of guessing where the middle of the mass was, and for the drop angle, we could have set something up to prevent the pendulum from moving back any further than we wanted instead of estimating the right drop angle with a protractor.

one constraint that limited our generalizability of our results is the number of times we changed the independent variable for each data set and the number of trials for each independent variable. if we increased both of the stated constraints, our data would be able to be a more accurate and general representation of the expected data.