discussion and conclusion:

	when the hanging weight was the independent variable of the system it was tested to see of changing the hanging weight would impact the acceleration of the system while keeping the total mass of the system constant. as can be seen by the graphs shown previously as the hanging mass was increased the acceleration of the system also increased. this shows that there was a positive correlation between the hanging mass of the system and the acceleration of the system. as more mass was placed on the hanging part of the system the acceleration would increase. also, on the graph no error bars can be seen because the error was to small. this can also be seen by the .98 r^2 value indicating a very good fit to our data.

	the results from the experiment were confirmed by the other groups in the lab. all the other groups received similar data and mathematical models from their experiments. all the groups came to the same conclusion that there was a positive correlation between the hanging mass of the system being increased and the acceleration of the system increasing. all the groups had high r^2 numbers so that means that the group can be confident in the values that were received during testing. both of the group’s numbers are around $y=2.8 x - 0.05$.



	the theoretical equation for force is $f = m a$ so this means that $a =\frac{f}{m}$. the result from the groups testing was slightly different from this theoretical model due to outside forces such as friction and gravity. without these forces being present the group’s model would have been almost the same as the theoretical model of forces and acceleration of systems. the theoretical mathematical model did support the findings of the experimental mathematical. they were very close and without the presence of outside forces. if the string connecting the hanging mass and the cart were a heavy string instead of the normal string. the acceleration would increase even quicker than it was when there was just a light string attaching them. this would occur because as more string moved over to the hanging part of the system it would pull faster. 

	there were no observable random errors when conducting this experiment because all the measurements were conducted using the exact same method which involved a pulley which calculated the force and acceleration of the system as the string passed over it. there was a systematic error however when the group was calculating if the friction impacted the acceleration of the system. there was a small block underneath the track which caused an upward elevation. this impacted all the results slightly and was a systematic error. the systematic error could be avoided in the future by checking to see that the track is perfectly horizontal and not elevated or declined at any point. 

	the constraints in which these results can be held to be true is when the mass of the system stays the same as well as that the track has a perfectly flat runway. these results were only tested in one location, so these results cannot be deemed as true everywhere unless testing is conducted at locations with different elevations than that of the original experiment in the lab.