conclusion:

the purpose of the lab was to create mathematical models regarding how mass impacts acceleration in a real system. 
in lab 05 the first experiment we did was removing weight from the cart and adding it to the dangling string, therefore increasing the acceleration of the cart. this experiment was very accurate. the accuracy of this experiment can be seen by the r^2 value which is one meaning the trend line is a perfect fit. in the second experiment of lab 05 we added weight to the cart rather than the weight hanging off the end of the table. acceleration decreased as mass was added to the cart. this was predictable because of newtons second law ($f=m a$). in lab 06 we ran the same experiment as the first of lab 05 with various heights. we found that the height the track was didn’t impact much. at the 3 different heights all the lines have the same slope and similar r^ values that are close to one. 
i disagree with the findings of the groups whose white board is to the right. the error did not become larger in our experiment. it did change but remained close to 1 meaning that there was little error throughout. however if i could see there graphs maybe there data reflected something different from mine leading them to the conclusion they drew.
we had some errors in this lab like we do with most labs done. one of the errors experienced is we said the system was frictionless however some friction was still present in the experiment. also some error was due to the measuring devices and human error. 
the biggest constraint in this experiment that makes it hard to generalize the results is the fact we took weight off one object and transferred it to the hanging mass. this changed not only the downforce of the hanging weight but lowered the mass of the cart. in order to have better data we should have kept the weight on the cart the same throughout the experiment. 
this experiment is an example of newtons second law by showing how mass and acceleration are related to find the force of the system.