conclusion:

	the question being researched in this lab is to determine what variables have a significant impact on the period of a pendulum. the first part of this lab investigated three possible variables that could have an effect on the period of a pendulum. these three variables were mass, angle of release, and length of the pendulum. these three variables were each tested separately by timing the period of a pendulum with a stopwatch. the results of this data was compiled in table 3. (data for testing is  impact of mass on period of a pendulum),, table 5. (data for testing is  impact of angle of release on period of a pendulum), & table 7. (data for testing is  impact of length on period of a pendulum.)  the error associated with the stopwatch method of measuring period by the researchers was obtained by taking 10 measurements of the same trial with controlled variables and finding the standard deviation of this data set as shown in  table 1.( error testing and calculation for lab 1). this error was found to be +- 0.0185 seconds.  after general conclusions were made from the graphs of these data sets, variable(s) that were determined to have a clear impact on the period of the pendulum.

	mass was clearly determined to have no effect on the period of a pendulum because the data in figure 1. (graph of period of pendulum vs mass)  shows that the relationship between period and mass is a linear one with a slope of nearly zero especially when considering the error associated with the stopwatch measuring method. this can only be concluded under constant acceleration due to gravity as thats the condition in which the test was conducted. angle of release similarly appears to have a mostly linear relationship with a very slightly greater than zero slope however the representation shown in figure 2 (graph of period vs. angle of release) is not certain enough to conclude that the period of the pendulum is affected by the angle of release when taking into account the error associated with the measurement method for time. the mathematical models for both mass and angle of release would take the form       $t=c$      where t is the period of the pendulum in seconds and c is some arbritrary constant dependent on the value of other variables kept constant  that do have an impact on the period of the pendulum, such as acceleration due to gravity and length. figure 3 (graph of period of pendulum vs pendulum length) displays that length does have some effect on the period of a pendulum however the exact nature of this relationship is unclear due to the error of the experiment, outside of the fact that the graph is clearly increasing. additional testing was then done in table 8 (data for testing is  impact of length on period of a pendulum (using photogate to measure) to explore more accurately the relationship present between length and the period of a pendulum using a photogate to measure period significantly reducing the error of the experiment from +-0.0185 to +-0.001 seconds. the data from this new method of testing with a photogate was graphed in figure 4 (graph (2) of period of pendulum vs pendulum length) and the relationship can be more clearly observed to be a power relationship where the slope of the curve increases at a decreasing rate. using excel this relationship was calculated to be of the form of the mathematical model $t=1.9997 l^{0.5521}$  where t is the period of the pendulum in seconds and l is the length in meters. this model is very close to the theoretical mathematical model which takes the form     $t =2.007 l^{0.5}$      . this model is for only the relationship between length and period under the acceleration due to gravity of earth. the general form is    $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$    . the data accurately depicts a power relationship where the power is very close to 0.5 and the constant term is very close to that resulting from the acceleration due to gravity on earth.

	some of the difference between the mathematical model and the theoretical model is due to error. measures taken to reduce the error present in the experiment varied from each testing method. for example the researchers took down multiple trials for each measurement in the experiments recorded using a stopwatch and any clear outliers were discarded and retested. these random errors would have made the calculated mathematical models less accurate.another source of random error could have been inconsistency in the starting/ending point of the pendulum being moved. the start point of the pendulum was recorded on a whiteboard however the whiteboard was mobile and could occasionally move during or before trials changing the periods that the researchers measured. these sources of error were addressed by the use of the photogate as the photgate created a consistent point for the period to be measured from and the researchers were not required to react and take measurements and instead the period was determined by he photogate detect the pendulum’s motion. there was systematic error present in the data from table 7. (data for testing is  impact of length on period of a pendulum) as the measurements for length of the pendulum were taken from the top of the pendulum to the end of the string and not all the way down to the bottom of the entire pendulum, in other words from the top down to the bottom of the attached weight. as discussed previously this data and mathematical models is limited to only pendulums under the constant acceleration due to gravity of earth. they also can only apply to pendulum’s without external forces applied to them aside from gravity. generalizability could also be reduced in circumstances where air resistance can play a significant role such as extremely light pendulums.