conclusion and discussion:

for lab 5, the experiment was done to see the mathematical model and the factors affecting the magnitude of the acceleration of a system. we tested whether different forces or different weight of the system affected the acceleration. for lab 6, we had to learn and understand what each number and variable in the equations meant. 
in the first part of lab 5, we saw how adding different forces affected the acceleration of the system. we held the mass of the system constant but changed the amount of force applied to the system, by increasing how much weight is pulling the system. we used the software data studio, then used excel to create the graphs which helped us calculate the equation for the different masses we used on the system, giving us the equation $a=2.7094 w - 0.0147$. in our experiment, since when there is 0 force, the acceleration should be zero, but in our case, the y intercept is not zero, and that is probably like that due to other forces acting on it. the number 2.7094 indicates how much the acceleration differs when forces are added, which is w in that case. that equation gives us the final acceleration of the system.
in the second part of lab 5, we saw how changing how much the system mass is affected the acceleration of the system. we also used data studio for this and excel to create the graph, which gave us the equation of the line that it created. that equation was $a=2.0445 - 28471 m$. this equation shows us that the more mass (m) one adds to the system, the slower the acceleration becomes, since the number is negative. is also shows that the y intercept is at 2.0445, which is wrong because that number should be 0, because if there is no force acting on it, the object that is at rest should stay at rest. so that says that something was already moving it, or that some force acted on it from the start (which probably is us releasing it a half of a sec before we started recording).
in lab 6, we did four experiments to see if tilting the ramp that the system is on affected the acceleration of the system. we held the force acting on the system constant but changed the height of the tilt. we also used studio data for this experiment and excel to get the graphs and the equation of each test. the four equations that we got were
$a=2.9437 + 0.034$
$a = 2.9231 w + 0.0788$
$a=2.919 w + 0.1208$
in the equation above the w is the size of the tilt. for this experiment, we saw that it did differ for the initial acceleration due to the y intercept that we got. the more tilt we had, the more initial acceleration there was. 

based on the experiments of the other group, the magnets slow the system which is like having some friction, which pretty much is acceleration in the negative direction. so the stronger the magnets were, the less acceleration there was from the forces acting on the system. that also probably shows in the equation as opposite to ours since ours was more tile means more acceleration, well this one is the stronger the magnet, the less acceleration there is.
something that could have affected our experiment would be friction, even though it was low, it was still in the system, and with the string not being perfectly straight and wobbling back and forth with the weight, then that could have made the system move around on the track, making the metal rub on each other between the mass holder and the track itself. another error is that the pulley could have had friction when it spun around, that factor would slow the system down because friction is pulling the other way from the forces. 
friction would have been the biggest constraint we have. even though we made it very low, it was still present in the system. friction would also change base on what the mass of the object is because friction’s equation is $f= \mu m g$, and mass is part of that equation. another thing that stopped us from generalizing is that the masses that we used were very small, they were all in grams, so that means that with more masses, the system could have acted differently, and it would have been easier for us to see the change and difference. 
newton’s second law says that the acceleration of the system is equal to the sum of the forces acting on the system divided by the mass of the system. for the experiment that we did in table 2a which had a tilt of 3.25 * 10 -3 m and an acceleration of 2.9279w + 0.0062, we see that the number which 2.9279 is measured in 1/kg. and that is proven because when we put that value to the power of -1, which drops the value to the denominator, it gives us the number .34kg, which is very close to the system’s mass which is .34kg is we were to round them to the nearest 100th decimal. this case can be shown in all of the four experiments, which is just reassurance that it is the same number.