discussion/ conclusion

	in this experiment, we developed two mathematical models to describe the behavior of a system (lab 05). we then used one of these experimental models that we derived from lab 05 and investigated the impact of the external forces, specifically backward tilt, on c2 of the experimental model. 

	in lab 05, we used the hanging weight as the independent variable to derive a mathematical model that represents the relationship between hanging force and the acceleration of a system. from our graph, we can conclude that there is a positive correlation between the hanging force and the acceleration of the system. we then used error bars within our graph to determine the statistical significance of our data. our error bars did not have much overlap, leading us to conclude that our data is statistically significant. our derived mathematical model from our experiment was $y=3.6097 x - 0.0231$. in our experimental model, the slop of the x is positive, leading us to conclude that the acceleration and the force of the system have a positive correlation. 

	in lab 06, we were able use the mathematical model found in lab 05 to determine the impact that the backward tilt has on the c2 value in our experimental model. when we increased the backward tilt from 0.25in to 0.5in the c2 value did decrease as predicted. however, when we increased the backward tilt from 0.5in to 0.75in, the c2 value increased. we can attribute this error in our results possibly to the holes in the track. as the tilt increases the holes could fill up with more air pressure, causing the acceleration to increase instead of decreasing. in the future, we would need to perform the experiment in a way in which we could control this possible source of error. the other group that tested the same independent variable, showed similar results. their c2 value continued to decrease as the backward tilt was increased. this supports our results and conclusions. from our results, as well as comparing our results with that of another group, we can conclude that the backward tilt does have an impact on the c2 value within the experimental model. we are also able to conclude that as the backward tilt increases, the c2 value within the experimental model decreases. 

	the theoretical equation supporting our conclusion is $a = \frac{f}{m_{sys}}$. the enhanced theoretical equation is $a= \frac{f}{m} + f_{external}$. the experimental model is $a= c1 f + c2$ . experimental model does support the theoretical model. the c(2) represents the external force of tilt. when we found our experimental model ($y=c1 + c2$), the line of best fit fell directly on to our data points. this leads us to believe that the experimental model supports the theoretical model. 

	if a heavy string were to be connected to the hanging weight of the cart, the hanging force of the cart would also increase. this can lead me to predict that the acceleration of the system would also increase. in newton’s second law $a= \frac{f}{m}$. because the force and acceleration of the system are directly proportional, the acceleration of the system would increase as the force increases. however, by making the string heavier, we are also making the mass of the system larger which would decrease the acceleration of the system. it is possible that the effects of the increased mass of the system could cancel out the effects of an increased force of the system. we would need to perform an experiment to investigate which variable has a more significant impact on the acceleration of a system. 

	a systematic error could have been attributed to not actually weighing out each individual bobber before performing the experiment. in further investigations, we could weigh each individual bobber in order to obtain more accurate results.  random error could have been attributed to releasing the cart to soon or too late. having a timer for which the cart was released could produce more accurate results in further investigations. a systematic error could have also been attributed to not ever having a leveled system. we never initially leveled our system so there could have been some initial tilt that we did not account for within our experiment. 

	possible constraints might have been clogged holes in the track. clogged holes in the track could have led to an inaccurate reading of the acceleration of the system. other possible constraints might have been time. if we had more time, we might be able to perform more trials and find more accurate data to rely on. this would also eliminate any possible random errors within our experiment. another possible constraint within our experiment might have been attributed to not being provided with a level. we were not able to ensure that our system was initially level, which might have resulted in a small amount of systematic error. ensuring that our system was initially level, would eliminate this possible chance of systematic error. 
