discussion and conclusion

the research question is, with 3 different factors that could affect the period of the pendulum swing, we would have to test each variable one at a time while the others are constant.

the mass as the independent variable addressed the research question by having the other variables staying constant. with this although, the slope and change of period in the mass vs time of period did not have as much of an affect as other variables which was proven in the early and second graphs of the data taken from those experiments. the change of the time of the period was not enough to consider it the main factor that affects the period.

the length as the independent variable addresses the research question by having the 2 other variables staying constant. with the data we had collected for this part of the experiment showed that length had the most change in the time of the period. the slope of that graph was much more drastic than the other 2 proving that it had more effect on the period. because of this we were able to conclude that it had the most effect. with the graphs above show the number that were collected that proved this as well as the graphs that shows the bigger slope.

		the angle as the independent variable addressed the research question by having it being the only changing variable during the experiment for it. it was tested with changing intervals of the angles of which the object was dropped. with the data we collected it showed that the angle had the not the greatest affect on the period time of the pendulum. with the graphs and data collected the data seemed to stay almost in a horizontal line. it showed almost no slope therefore we could not conclude that the angle was the biggest factor in the experiment.

	a theoretical equation for this experiment could be        $t=\frac{a m}{l}$        the reason for this would be that the length had the most impact on the period so then it should be what the other variables would be divided by to see the time of the period. the mathematical model produced from the lab data supports the theoretical model by it showing and proving that length had the most affect on the period. we can tell this by the differences in the slopes between all 3 graphs. the angle and mass graphs had slopes that were much smaller than the slope of the length vs. time graph.

	with this experiment there could have and was possible errors with the data collected. some of the systematic errors that we had found that could have been present was mis-timing the time of the period with the hand timers, having an incorrect angle by not much by using a protractor and our eyes. some of the other systematic errors could have been we were calculating data for the end results, we could have mis-entered a value or not properly round our numbers. some of the random errors that would have been present would have us been mis-timing our values on each test. this would have been drastically different number for the fact that someone may have stopped their timer late or that they just weren’t timing properly. these were reduced by us using a more precise timer that had no human input on it, so tat removed us messing up stopping or starting wrong. as well it removes a lot of the human error found in that data by it being taken by a more precise machine.