discussion and conclusions:

 the research question for this laboratory investigation was “what factors effect the pendulum periods length.” 
each experiment gave us further insight as to what variables effect the pendulum period length. from our experiments we determined that the angle of release and length of the string increased the pendulum period length, these relationships were proven valid based on our error analysis above and the data being outside the error range. we also determined that the mass of the pendulum had no effect on the pendulum period length, the data collected was proven invalid due to the data being inside the error range as shown in the above graph. 
 comparing our graphs to the mathematical models we concluded that the length of the pendulum string and angle of pendulum release both had a positive relationship with the pendulum period length, the mass had no relationship. we then organized our data into different theoretical mathematical models of best fit and found that the angle vs period graph was best represented on a linearized graph and that the length vs period graph was best represented by a power graph as seen above, this shows that the angle of release has a linear positive relationship to the pendulum period length and the length of string had a direct positive effect on the pendulum period length. 

a large factor that had effect on these experiments was gravity, although acceleration due to gravity is a constant -9.8m/s^2 on earth the acceleration due to gravity in areas outside are different and would have a large effect on the components in this system. 
 some errors present in the execution of our experiment were human error in the dropping conditions and timing of the stopwatch. the timing of the stopwatch could have caused systematic error if the stop watch was slow, but most likely caused random error, along with the dropping conditions because us humans are not perfect. while close are always changing a condition due to human error. for later experiments we would recommend that the pendulum period be timed over a long period of time for a set number of periods and then divided by that number to get an average, this would lower the error from the starting and stopping of the watch for each trial and would give a more accurate average pendulum period length for each trial.

 we are students in a physics lab classroom so in general our data and relationships are not determined under perfect conditions. for example, we could have computers monitoring exact distances, times, etc. vs us as students using our eyes and stopwatches.