discussion and conclusion:

in this lab the research question that was being tested is what factors influence the period of the pendulum. the three experiments that were conducted in order to address this question included varying the mass of the pendulum while keeping the length of the string and angle of release constant, varying the length of the string while keeping the angle of release and mass constant, and varying the angle of release while keeping the length of the string and mass constant. it was originally believed that the period of the pendulum would be affected by the angle of release and the length of the string, while the mass would not have any noticeable effect. it was determined in figure 5 and figure 6 that varying the mass of the pendulum does not affect the period of the pendulum. the variation of time measurements is explained by error which will be discussed later. the angle of release was also found to not affect the period of the pendulum, contrary to the original prediction. this can be observed in figure 1 and figure 2. unlike the angle of release and mass, the length of the pendulum’s string has a strong correlation to the pendulum’s period as seen in figure 3 and figure 4. these findings make sense when the theoretical model for the period of the pendulum is considered. the theoretical model is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. the equation does not consider either the mass or the angle of release, however it does require a string length input. when the string lengths tested above are entered into the period equation, similar time values to figure 3’s are calculated. the string lengths tested in both figure 1 and figure 5 produce similar results to the calculated values, however their independent variables do not compute with the formula. most error was systematic especially when the mass was tested. unlike the angle of release and length of string tests, the mass was not tested using the gateway. this allowed for a large amount of human error while timing with the stop watch. this is likely why there was a larger disparity in times than would be ideal. there is still some systematic error with the other tests as well. this is due to the gateway only being so accurate, and the possibility of added velocity to the release of the pendulum.  the initial velocity could be mostly negated by measuring the second period rather than the first. the gateway, while not completely accurate, was far more accurate than the manual stopwatch and negated a large amount of error. the biggest limit to the generalizability of the results is due to the limited amount of time allowed to test the periods of the pendulum. due to the limited amount of time to complete the experiment only a certain number of periods could be tested for each variable. this could lead to measurements of higher variability and less overall accuracy.

2019 university of cincinnatilab 03 - creating mathematical models - page 7