conclusion:
After we experiments, that we found out if length of string increases time increased as well. This relationship we called it positive correlation, both going on positive direction. Other way of say is independent variable is affecting on dependent variable. When we did mass vs time it had no correlation, independent variable didn’t affect on dependent variable, and when we did angles vs time, we got negative correlation. Which mean independent variable was cause time to be less each time we increase the angle. 
When we did the experiment, we found out there was no correlation. Increasing the mass of the weight vs time. We add 20 grams of weight each time, but it took same time as starting weight. The independent variable which was the weight but didn’t has any impact on dependent variable which was the time. But we got a standard deviation was 0.05 seconds this can cause of human error, air in the room and we can see it on error bar in the graph each point as smiler bar. 
We got negative correlation when we did the release angles vs time. Independent variable which was release angle as we increase, time start to decrease. This mean that angles as negative in impact on time. We got about standard deviation.05 and this was cause of human error, we know less than .05 is positive result and accurate. When we did the error bar, we got some to be longer bar which had more error and some as small error bar which had little errors. 
As we already know from real life experiment this one has to have positive correlation as the length of string got longer time start to increase. there was directly relationship between the independent and depended variable they both increases which cause to have positive correlation. Independent variable which was the sting the cause dependent variable to change as well. Even in reality it makes sense as the string get longer and longer it would take long time to get to period. There was standard deviation 0.05 seconds this might do to air resistant in the room and human error. There was some smaller and some lager error bar which was mix, that can be because timer might have delay on stopping time. 
Our experimental model data gave us the equation $y=2.1295 x^{0.4301}$. Our theoretical model gave us the equation $y=1.99 x^{0.5}$. In comparison with the theoretical model the experimental model was a little higher which shows that we still had a small amount of error in our design. But is supports of result because we got R square to be .99985, which shows a very high correlation between our line of best fit and there was leaser being be delay .001 seconds. We had to count the human error and angles not being in center and releasing without any force.  
 Random error would be like angles might be not accurate, there was air in room which we known as air resistance. There can be delay in communication between pendulum who is releasing and who is recoding time. Maybe that time keeper and other has different view of where the period ends it, the tools make protector which would be systematic error wasn’t accurate.  
If we had accurate protractor which can reduced errors which was shown on the error bars. There was air in the room so if the experiment was carried on vacuum than it will eliminate air resistance. As we said human error like person releasing thing the pendulum and time skipper it can be reducing this error if we use laser to get the time accurate when it gets period. To do this experiment if we had all scientific tools, that would give accurate result, tools can be inaccurate this can cause error without knowing it. 
If I had chance to do this experiment once again, I would use scientific tools, which would give accurate measurements, use different string and get the weight of the string, that can have effect on time. If experiment was done in vacuum than so there won’t be air that can cause use to have inaccurate error.   
