discussion 



	the purpose of this lab was to develop mathematical models that describe the behavior of a system and to determine how changes in the physical lab setting change these mathematical models in order to gain a better understanding of each variable and numerical value in the model.  

in lab 05, two mathematical models were produced. for the first, the relationship between the force of the hanging mass and the resulting acceleration was assessed, and the experiment design for this experiment can be seen in table 1. a cart was rested on an air track, with a hanging bob attached to the cart and to a photogate. the mass of the total system was kept constant at 340.5g. in order to assess how the hanging mass of the bob, and therefore the force, affected the acceleration, weights were attached to the hanging bob, and then shifted to the cart as each trial was run. this is better visualized in table 6, and the results are also shown. a graph was made of the resulting data, as seen in graph 1, and a mathematical model was produced from the formula of the best-fit line. the mathematical model is $a = 2.045 f_{hanging} + 0.2083$ (linear). the theoretical model for this experiment is $a=c1 f+c2 f$. in the model produced from the experiment, c1 represents conservative forces such as gravity, and is represented by 2.045fhanging, which is derived from the force of the system divided by the mass of the system. in this case, c1 is 1/0.3405n to equal 2.93. the c1 of the mathematical model is 2.045, which is similar in value.  c2 represents nonconservative forces, such as friction, air resistance, tilt, that have an impact on acceleration. this mathematical model represents the direct relationship between force and acceleration in that acceleration depends directly on the force applied when the mass of the total system is kept constant. as the force applied decreased, acceleration also decreased. this is visualized as a linear relationship in graph 1. in the second portion of lab 05, the relationship between force of cart and resulting acceleration was assessed, and the experimental design can be seen in table 2. using the same set-up as the first portion of this experiment, the weight of the hanging bob was instead held constant at 11.4g while mass was added to the cart. the results for this can be seen in table 7 and graph 2. the mathematical model of the resulting data was produced from the formula of the best-fit line, and this is is  $a = 0.9501 f_{cart}^{-0.979}$ (power). the theoretical model for this experiment is $a = c1 m^{-1}$. c1 represents the total force divided by the mass of the system. this mathematical model shows that the relationship between the mass of an object and its acceleration is an inverse relationship, meaning that as mass increases the acceleration decreases. it was concluded that the hypothesis was supported.  

	in lab 06, the understanding of these mathematical models was further understood by altering the physical environment of the lab setting and observing the results on the acceleration. in this case, placing weights underneath the front end of the air track produced an incline. the experiment was performed using a tilt of 6.35mm, 12.52mm, and 25.29mm and using the parameters of the first experiment of lab 05, assessing how force of the hanging mass affects acceleration. the experimental designs for each of these tilts can be visualized in table 3,4, and 5, respectively. the results of these experiments can be seen in tables 8,9, and 10, and graphs 3, 4, and 5. we then compared the resulting mathematical models of these experiments to the mathematical model produced in lab 05 is  $a = 2.045 f_{hanging} + 0.2083$ (linear). it was observed that the only observable difference was in the value of c2, in that as tilt increased, the value of c2 increased and the acceleration decreased. c2 represents the forces acting upon the system that are due to nonconservative forces such as friction, air resistance, tilt, etc, over the mass of the system. 

group #5 tested friction as their variable in lab 06. they hypothesized that as friction increased, the acceleration of the cart would decrease. their results supported this hypothesis. this further supports the assumption that c2 represents nonconservative forces, as friction is considered a nonconservative force and c1 did not experience much change in this experiment. 

	the sources of error in these labs are due to precision of the measurement of the bob masses, the way the bobs were initially attached to the cart, and accidentally skipping the measurement of a specific mass. because we are relying on sight in order to measure the mass of the bobs, random error could be present because the estimation of measurement can differ from person to person. in lab 05, the bobs were also initially attached to the cart using tape, because we were not initially aware of the hooks that could be used to affix the bobs to the string. because of this, a small amount of mass could have been added to the cart due to the tape, resulting in changes to our results. another error was made in the fhanging vs acceleration experiment. in designing our trials, the natural progression 34.2g to 28.5g (a 5.7g difference) was overlooked and skipped, instead skipping to 22.8g. this means that an entire mass was skipped, and our results shifted. this definitely changed our results to reflect this skip, as seen in the slight jump between fourth result and the fifth result on graph 1, but unfortunately this was not caught during this experiment. however, our mathematical model still appears to follow the theoretical model. systematic error was not expected for this experiment, but could exist if the photogate was not calibrated correctly or if the scale was not calibrated correctly. in order to reduce the random error in this experiment, taking many repeats of each trial and taking an average of each could have yielded a more accurate result. however we did not do this. since averaging does not reduce systematic error, we have to ensure that the measuring devices used in this experiment are calibrated as accurately as possible or all the measurements could be adjusted to account for the known error. 

	a constraint that exists for this experiment is that we cannot control for the effect that air resistance has on our research question. our system does not exist in a highly controlled environment such as a vacuum, so air resistance could have played a role in the affect on acceleration. therefore, a new hypothesis that could be tested for this experiment is how does air resistance affect acceleration. another constraint that exists is that the length of the string attached to the cart only stretch to 1.8 m up the air track, so our results are only applicable to lengths below 1.8 m. 
