conclusion:


	the question being researched in this lab is what specific variables affect the period of a pendulum. the three main variables that were tested were length of the string, the mass of the pendulum, and the angle of release for the pendulum. 

	over three weeks that the experiment occurred, different things were tested in order to ensure that the data acquired was valid and a proper conclusion can be reached. in the first week three variables were tested using raw methods to see if there was a relationship between them and the period of the pendulum. with the raw data it could be seen that the variable of length of the string had a direct relationship between the period of the pendulum. as the length of the string increased, so did the period of the pendulum. this can be seen in table 1 and figures 1 and 2. they all show the relationship between the length of the string and the period, and each shows a direct positive relationship between the two. the other two variables, mass of pendulum and angle of release had no affect on the period of the pendulum. tables 2 and 3 show that the period of the pendulum stayed relatively the same regardless of the change in the two variables. most of this data was found in the first week of the lab. 

the second week of lab was about finding the error within the values that were found. since only one variable had a valid relationship between the period, it was tested more in order to see if the data still fit even with the error bars. the second week of lab determined that the mass and angle of release had no relationship with the period of the pendulum, as the error bars and values are all confirmed to be around the same. the independent variable of length of string vs period was proven to have a direct relationship as the vertical error bars show that first point cannot possibly the same as the third point onwards. the period keeps increasing along with the length of the string. this will be proven even further in the third of week of the lab.

in the third week of the lab a clearer conclusion was developed through the experiment. since we determined that length of the string had a direct relationship with period, we retested the variable except using photogate this time in order to obtain a more accurate measurement. the experiment with the photogate provided the same result as before except the measurements were more accurate and the data created more of a straight line as shown in figure 1. 

the mathematical model used proved the relationship between length of string and the period even more. the mathematical model used was the theoretical equation for the period of the pendulum which is perio$d=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. the equation essentially has length in the numerator over gravity, which means that as length increases the overall equation will increase. another thing that is important from the equation is the fact that mass and angle of release are variables that are not in the equation. that further proves that mass and angle of release has no affect on the period of the pendulum.  

some of the errors that were present in the experiment were mostly random errors. the errors were mostly due to the randomness that can occur during measuring time with the stopwatch. all of the measurements, except those from the photogate, were taken manually and there is room for error that is taken since it is difficult to accurately measure the period manually. even with the photogate there is possible systematic error that comes with the error. to minimize the random error we used the photogate to used more accurate results. there isn’t much to do for the possible systematic error with the photogate. there really weren’t many constraints to the experiment. if we could use the photogate for all the experiments it would have been easier to further prove the results of the other experiments.