discussion & conclusion

	the previous two weeks of lab focused on the impacts of different variables on the acceleration of a cart on an air track. the research question posed for these combined experiments was, “how does the acceleration of a system change when the hanging mass, total mass of the cart, or presence of friction changes?”. in table 1, the data for the impact of hanging mass on acceleration is presented. this data was used to create a graph which indicated a positive linear correlation between hanging mass and acceleration. this means that as the hanging mass increased, the acceleration of the system increased, leading to the conclusion that hanging mass does impact the acceleration of a system. the data presented in table 2 is that of the impact of the total cart mass on the acceleration. the graph produced from this data indicates a negative power curve, meaning that as the total mass of the cart increases, the acceleration decreases. this information concludes that the total mass of the cart does impact the acceleration of a system. finally, tables 3, 4, and 5 present the data collected for the impact of friction on the acceleration of a system. in table 3, there is no friction added and hanging mass is added. this data produced a graph much the same as from the data found in table 1 is  a positive correlation. table 4 presents the data collected with friction present from the addition of two magnets. the graph from this data also indicates a positive linear relationship. similarly, the graph from the data collected in table 5 (addition of 4 magnets) indicates a positive linear relationship. from the equations provided on the graphs, the y-intercept value increases between figures 4 and 5 with the addition of more magnets (more friction). this indicates that friction does impact the acceleration of a system in that as more friction is added, the acceleration of the system decreases. 

	in last week’s lab, half of the groups tested the impact of friction while the other half tested the impact of the cart being tilted on the acceleration of the system. group 1 is another group who tested the impact of friction. their findings indicate that friction does not affect acceleration. this disagrees with what our group found. similarities between our findings, however, include that the slope-values stayed relatively constant and the y-intercept values increased with more friction. one other group in the class tested the impact of friction on acceleration and once again obtained similar results in equations as our group and group 1 did. there are discrepancies between our groups in that, while we obtained similar equations, what we concluded from these equations differs. 

the mathematical model format from last week’s experiment is, $a = c1 f + c2$. from this equation and from the experiments performed both last week and this week, the dependent variable is the acceleration, represented by “a” in the mathematical model. the independent variable is represented by “f” in the experimental mathematical model. “f” is the forces that impact the acceleration. the theoretical mathematical model obtained from figure 5, with the presence of 4 magnets to increase friction, was $y = 0.0793 x – 0.0187$. the slope, 0.0793, is relatively close to the slopes obtained from figures 4 (0.0787) and 3 (0.0818). the y-intercept from figure 5, 0.0187, is the highest y-intercept value obtained from the figures that present the data of the impact of friction. for this reason, we concluded that friction does impact the acceleration of a system due to its affect on the theoretical models. while the variable “f” in the mathematical model represents all of the forces acting on the system, which would include friction, normal force, and the force of gravity, we can really only focus on friction considering that the normal force and the force of gravity cancel each other out in the case of this experiment. this cancellation makes friction the only force impacting acceleration. 

	in the scenario of a heavy string connecting the hanging mass with the cart, i predict that the acceleration of the cart would increase. we already know, from our data collection and analyzation, that as hanging mass increases, the acceleration increases. my thought process is that a heavier string connecting this hanging mass to the cart would further increase the acceleration because it would be more mass hanging from the cart in total, therefore increasing the acceleration of the system.

	the experiments over the last two weeks encountered both random and systematic error. random error throughout the experiments included not starting the acceleration-recording software at the appropriate time or by misestimating a value. systematic error encountered included the software not recording the most accurate acceleration reading. ways to reduce random error would be to be consistent when taking the acceleration readings and being consistent with measurements/readings, and to keep improving techniques used in the experiment. ways to reduce systematic error would be to make sure the software is up to date and working properly before collecting data. 

	constraints in this experiment include time and not having enough data collected, which could go hand-in-hand. in order to maximize generalizability, we need to have as many trials run as possible and as much data collected as we can. this is only possible when we have a lot of time to run these trials and the necessary amount of materials to run trials that have a significant difference amongst each other. the more data collected, the easier it is to analyze/compare results and conclude whether or not these different variables truly do have a significant impact on the acceleration of the system.