conclusion and discussion:

the purpose of these lab periods was to determine the variables that alter the period of a pendulum. our first goal was to determine the parts of a pendulum that could be changed to test the effects on the period of the pendulum. we determined that the different variables that could be altered were distance from the pivot point, mass of the pendulum, and the angle from vertical that the mass was released from.

	our first experiment was testing the length of the pendulum and how it impacts the period. we conducted this experiment by releasing the pendulum by hand and using a stopwatch to measure the time elapsed for four passes of the pendulum. this output data that did show a curve indicating a trend between the length of the pendulum and the period of time that occurred. with this, the error bars indicated that this difference was not due to experimental error as the bars did not overlap on the graph (see figure 1). looking at all five data points, we see that the error bars did not overlap one another at all, proving that the difference in period was not due to measurement error. had the error bars overlapped some we would have to take those into account, making sure that the spread of data was still large enough that the period increase could not be attributed to error. we later repeated this same experiment with a different timing apparatus, we used the photogate system to more precisely measure the period of the pendulum’s motion. we then graphed this data and added error bars to the graph as well (see figure 4). from this graph as well, we see a trend of the pendulum’s period increasing as the length of the string does as well. the error bars on this graph are too small to be observed and therefor indicate that the length altering the duration of the period is not due to error when the experiment was repeated for a second time. from these graphs and data sets, we can conclude that the distance from the point of rotation does have an impact on the duration of the period, and that as the distance increases, the period does as well, proving our initial prediction.

	the second experiment conducted was testing the release angle of the pendulum and the impacts that it had on the period of the pendulum. we conducted this experiment by releasing the pendulum with 50 grams at a length of 28.5 cm from various angles that were equal to, or less than 30 degrees from vertical and measuring the duration of the period with stopwatches. from this we can see a noticeable trend in the data, that has a noticeably positive slope as the angle increased. however, unlike the length vs period the error bars on this graph do overlap with one another (see figure 2). since all of the data points have overlapping error bars, we assume that the range of data is small enough to be insignificant and may be attributed to error in the measurement of the period. from this data set, we can conclude that the angle of the release of the pendulum had no affect on the duration of the period of the pendulum and that our prediction was proven incorrect.

	the third experiment conducted was the testing the effect of mass on the period of a pendulum, and if a change in mass would change the duration of a pendulum’s period. this experiment was conducted by releasing the pendulum from an angle of 30 degrees from vertical and at a length of 28.5 cm, we then changed the amount of mass that was affixed to the end of the string, and then recorded the time taken to complete 4 swings with a stopwatch. looking at figure 3, we see that there is a generally negative trend to the line of best fit for the data. that being said, all of the points on the graph overlap with each other, this indicates that any difference in period may come from error that occurred during the experiment and does not significantly show that there was a change in the period of the pendulum. from this data set we can reasonably conclude that the mass of the pendulum does not change the period of the pendulum and that our prediction was proven incorrect.

the given theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is . the variables in this equation are; t for time of the period, l for the length of the mass from the point of rotation, and g for the acceleration due to gravity. we concluded that the only variable to significantly alter the period was the length of the pendulum which is supported by being the only variable in the equation that we tested or were able to test in our laboratory setting. this equation is supported by the experimental findings we recorded, as both the angle and mass did not significantly affect the period they should not be included into the equation. this equation is also supported by our experimental findings in experiment 4 where our line of best fit is a square root curve and has a multiplier that is approximately equal to  as seen in figure 4.

there were multiple errors that could have occurred in this lab that would have an effect on the precise measurements that were being taken. one of the most likely causes of random error to occur was the use of the stopwatches, the individual using the stopwatch had to determine when to stop the timer and was most likely off the actual time that the pendulum reached the reference point. the timer also had to judge a position to use as reference which was not an exact point, this would lead to random error from the stopwatch being started and stopped when the pendulum was in different positions, which could lead to a positive or negative error on the data. the error can be reduced in this experiment, the first is to minimize human involvement, we did this by using the photogate system to have an exact reference point and to accurately identify when the pendulum reaches that reference point. this reduction of error vastly improves the precision and accuracy of the experiment. another way the error can be reduced is to conduct more trials of the experiment, if all of the lab had collaborated their data, then the results would me more precise and would better reflect the theoretical equation and occurrences. there was also experimental error that may have occurred, the protractor, stopwatch, or measuring tape may not have been correctly calibrated. these measurement devices being out of calibration would cause the data to be skewed in the positive or negative direction and would decrease the reliability of the data.

this experiment had multiple constraints that impact the generalization negatively, making the results more specific. one of which is that there were forces constantly acting upon the mass and string other than the force of gravity. one force is friction from the air on the pendulum, as it travels through the air it is eventually slowed, thus increasing the period. this limits the generalization to be only in the same atmospheric conditions that we had in the lab or inside of a vacuum where the air resistance could be considered negligible. another constraint on the experiment was the use of the stopwatches, when being used they needed to be timed perfectly to provide accurate results, and as such the conclusion can is limited by the accuracy of the person timing the pendulum. a final constraint is the mass of the pendulum was not at a single point meaning that the distance measured is from the base of the pendulum not from the center of mass, which also reduces the generalization for this experiment.