Discussion: 
When doing this experiment, we set out to find what impacts the period length of a pendulum. When doing this, we tested three different IV’s; string length, weight of the pendulum arm, and angle of release. After setting up the pendulums and following a similar procedure of just changing the IV incrementally and keeping the DV the same, we recorded our results as seen above in the table and figures. 
	For the part of the experiment where mass was our IV, we found that there was no positive correlation between mass and period length. This can be seen in the plot of mass vs time shown above. Random and systematic error can be a cause for this. For example, the stop watche could have been misused. 
	The angle of release vs. time graph also showed no positive correlation. The error bars can be seen on the graph, but the error could have been random error such as messing up the stop watch or not releasing from the exact angle that was being tested. The largest error bars were found on this graph of angle vs. time. 
	The error bars for both the angle vs. time and the mass vs. time graph shows that that all the values potentially could be the same since the error bars overlap.
	The third IV that we tested, the string length vs time graph, showed a positive correlation between string length and pendulum period. This was the only one of the three IV’s that had a positive correlation. However, the error bars are still relatively large. 
For our final experiment, we used an automatic timer instead of a stop watch and only tested the IV of string length. All the results were recorded.
These two figures show the plots of string length vs. time for the new and improved string length vs. time trials. In the first plot the error bars are too small to recognize accurately. The relationship was positively correlated and somewhat linear, just as the last test of this IV showed. The positive correlation was further emphasized in the second plot by adding a line of best fit which shows the average slope of the plot and shows that it is, in fact, positive and linear. I am confident in our results, the R^2 value we obtained was .7245 which is good enough to clearly show correlation, but it isn’t extremely close to 1.0 which would show exact positive correlation. 
	The data obtained from the photogate is very certain. There could however, be some systematic error since none of us were familiar with exactly how to use it when first starting the experiment. The measurements of string could have been off since they were measured by a person with a tape measure and could have been off by a little bit. 
	The theoretical model presented to us in lab was $T=1.99 L^{0.5}$. Our mathematical model differed quite greatly. Our model was 2.4175L^1.1695. We also contacted two other lab groups to see how their mathematical models compared to ours. The first groups model was $T=2.885 L^{0.45}$ and the second groups was $T=2.0683 L^{0.429}$. our model was different while their models were close to the theoretical model. This is most likely due to experimental random error from discrepancies in measuring the length of the string, to simply not knowing how to correctly use the photogate. 
	Throughout the experiment there were several constraints that could have affected the results we obtained. For example, the air resistance was not measured as a factor. Other constraints were using slightly warped equipment; the metal arm that the pendulum string was hanging from was slightly bent and the string wasn’t one compact line, it was a tethered string therefor its range of motion could have been affected by this. 