discussion and conclusion



	in this experiment, we were testing what variables influenced the acceleration of a system. we tested what effect the mass on the system, hanging off the system, and the angle of inclination had on the acceleration of the system. 

	with the experiment where we tested what effect the hanging mass had on the acceleration of the system, we found that as the weight of the hanging mass increases, the acceleration also increased. this addressed our research question as we were able to see the effect that the hanging mass had on the acceleration. with our graph, we plotted the acceleration vs. the mass on the cart. while we were conducting this experiment, we used bobbers as our measurable masses, and as we took a bobber off the end of the hanging mass, we added it onto the cart to keep the weight of the entire system constant. the graph had a positive slope, showing that there is a positive correlation between the hanging mass of the system and the acceleration of the system. we found that our error bars were 0.75g on either side of the data point. this is because our bobbers had different weights, and the acceleration of the system was affected by this. 

	the other groups in our lab also had a linear trendline with a positive slope, showing that there is indeed a positive correlation between the hanging mass and the acceleration of the system. one of the groups had a trendline of $y=0.0285 x - 0.026$ which is a linear trendline with a positive slope, which supports our groups results. another group had a trendline of $y=2.86 x + 0.004$ which is also a liner trendline with a positive slope, which also supports our groups results. 

	our experimental mathematical model for this experiment was $a=0.0256 m - 7.5767$. the theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by a single force is $a =\frac{f_{hanging}}{m_{sys}}$. the acceleration that we measured for the first trial was 0.072m/s2. with the theoretical mass, we found it to be 0.199m/s2. this does not support our mathematical model, as the acceleration varies from what we measured.

	the enhanced theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by more than one force is $a =\frac{f_h + f_{external}}{m_{sys}}$ . the extra force in this equation is the weight of the sled, as that is a force that is acting on the system besides the force pulling the hanging mass down. this equation also does not support our experimental mathematical model, as the values calculated vary from the actual measured values.

	if this experiment was repeated with a heavier string, we would see a change in the acceleration of the system. because the mass of our hanging string was only a few grams, it had very little impact to the acceleration of the whole system. but if we were to use a much heavier string, then we would see that the acceleration would be less for every data point that we previously tested.

	the random errors that could have possibly occurred but were avoided were using different types of string, having a large amount of friction, changing the weight of the whole system, and changing the location of the experiment. a random error that could have occurred while we were conducting this experiment could be that when we pulled back the cart, it might not have gone to 0.8m each and every time. this would cause us to have different acceleration values, because the cart would not have the same amount of time to speed up properly. also, another random error that could have occurred while this experiment was taking place was that our bobbers were not all the same mass. while the mass of the whole system was constant, the increment that we increased the mass on the end of the string was not constant. this might be the attributing factor to the trendline not going perfectly through every data point.

	a constraint that could have affected our results in this experiment was that we only increased the angle of inclination of the track by less than 2o, so we were did not have more data to support our claims on how the angle of inclination affects the acceleration of the system. also, we were not able to test the acceleration of the system with more than 8 increments of weight. if we were able to test this experiment with more than 8 increments of weight, we would be able to see a much larger correlation between the acceleration of the system and the hanging mass.