conclusion:
the research question in this lab is: what impacts the period of the pendulum? the three experiments we made were length of the string, angle of release and mass.

 the claim made with our length of string is that there is direct relationship between the length of string and the period of the pendulum. a direct relationship says that when one variable, the length of the string, increases the other variable, the period, will also increase. this will be true when the mass and angle of release are held constant. the graph of the length of string v period shows that as the length of the string increase the period also does. the theoretical mathematical model that the best represents this graph is linear. the graph clearly shows a constant rate of increase and can be written as $y=1.82 x + 0.05647$. the factors that do not an impact of the pendulum have no effect on the theoretical model. 

there is no relationship between the angle of release and the period. as the graph of the angle of release and period shows no relationship. the period should remain constant if the angle of release should also remain constant; this can be shown in the angle of release v. period graph. the theoretical mathematical model that best fits this graph is linear. the graph is very close to having absolutely no rate of change and therefore is constant and linear. 

 there is no relationship between mass and period. when the mass is changed the period will remain constant. this can be seen in the period v. mass graphs. the theoretical mathematical model that best represents this graph is linear. this graph has almost no rate of increase and as a result is constant and linear.
  within this experiment there are a few random errors that were present. these random errors occur as a result of human error. the random errors that were present are an error in measuring length of string, an error measuring the angle, and in error in measuring the period of the pendulum. in order to reduce the error in measuring the length of string the measurement was double checked before releasing. error from measuring the angle was reduced by holding the protractor put to the string until a moment before it was released. holding the protractor allowed the group to minimize error by constantly seeing the exact angle to release the weight at. in order to reduce the error in measuring the period of the pendulum we had to two people time the period each trail. both people were perpendicular angles to the pendulum giving them a clear dictation as to when the period would be complete.

 there were a few constraints in this experiment. they are we never tested an angle below 30 degrees or above 80 degrees. we never tested something less than .05kg and never tested something above .15kg. we never tested with a string shorter than 10cm and more than 35cm.