discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of the lab was to develop a mathematical model to describe the behavior of a real system in lab 05 (that is, to find a mathematical model that described how the change in weight of m1 and m2 affected the acceleration of the system). in lab 06, the research question was aimed at finding out how the presence of a retarding force (in this case, friction from a magnetic field) would affect the acceleration of the glider.
the mathematical models from labs 05 and 06 were obtained by graphing out the data points that were recorded while performing the experiment. from lab 5, the first graph gave an equation of $y=0.9788 x$ and the second graph had an equation of $y=9.346 - 2.7992 x$. since the x-axis was the weight in n, all the x- variables were replaced with w. since the y-axis represented the acceleration, all the y-variables were replaced with a, and the resulting equation was our mathematical model. it w$a=0.9788 w$ and $a = -2.7992 w + 9.346$ respectively. the first mathematical model resembled a polynomial function while the second one was linear. in lab 06, the mathematical models were obtained in a similar fashion, by graphing the data points and replacing the x-and y-variables with weight and acceleration respectively. 3 mathematical models were obtained for three different test scenarios.
for trial 1 with all magnets on top, the equation was $y=2.3516 x - 0.0078$ thus the mathematical model would be $a=2.3516 w - 0.0078$. for trial 2 with three magnets on the sides, the equation was $y=2.2563 x - 0.0238$ which implies the mathematical model would be $a=2.2563 w - 0.0238$. for trial 3 with all magnets on the side, the obtained equation was $y=2.0029 x - 0.0447$ so the mathematical model would be $a=2.0029 w - 0.0447$. the equations were obtained by comparing the r2 value for different graph types and choosing the one with the value closest to 1, for the most accuracy, in all three cases the mathematical model came out to be linear.
the variable a represented the acceleration of the cart when there was friction involved in the case of lab 6, while it represented the acceleration of the cart when there was no friction involved in lab 5. in both lab 5 and 6 the variable w stood for the weight in n however they represented the weight of different things, like m1 and m2. 
the first numerical value should be an acceleration value as it is the slope of a velocity-time graph. the second value should be a velocity value as it is the y-intercept of a velocity-time graph, where the velocity is along the y-axis.
this groups claim and data are similar enough to our groups’ data to support our claim. however, their values were smaller, this can be attributed to using a different frictional force creator than the magnetic strips that our group used.
unfortunately, not much could be determined from this group’s findings as the wording was quite vague and there were no equations or mathematical models provided to support their conclusion and compare it to ours.
there might’ve been a systematic error with the graphing tool (eg is  graphing it one second early/late) which could cause the values to be off by the same amount each time, however this would be a negligible factor as the graphing tool is assumed to be very accurate and precise. there is a wide possibility of random errors occurring. some situations where the random errors would occur is in using the linear fit tool to find the slope of the graphed line, for example, the user would’ve selected the wrong line hence calculating the wrong slope, or the user could’ve selected a line that was not perfectly linear or they could’ve selected the portion of the line under the x-axis. all these would throw off the slope values thus affecting the numerical value before the x-variable in the final mathematical model. some other random errors that could take place is magnetic interference from magnetic elements on the track that would affect the frictional force, the air resistance which would also affect the frictional force, though the effect of these frictional forces on the acceleration would be quite negligible.
to reduce the random errors, we can do the following- finding the slope only on the portion of the graph that is linear and making sure there are no magnetic interferences, so we don’t miscalculate the friction caused due to the magnets and making sure the pulley is frictionless.

some constraints in this experiment that limit the generalizability of our results would include the fact that we did not fully account for the effect that the random and systematic errors would have on the slope of the graph, this would change our mathematical model. also the fact that we may not have taken the slope of the linear part of the graph in some cases would lead to a deviation from the actual mathematical model, and all this would limit the generalizability of our results.

 	this can be compared to our mathematical models of the form cf1+f2. c using the second law should equal 1/(301.5+66+0.030) which is 2.516 so the slope should be approximately 2.516 with the first graph being the closest and the last graph being the farthest. our mathematical models had slopes that were sort of like the calculated slope from the newton’s second law, the deviation from that value can be attributed to random and systematic errors that were not taken into account for.   thus we can see that our mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law.