conclusion: 

	as shown in the experiments above, the height of the track, along with force and mass of the system directly affect the acceleration of the cart.

 firstly, the experiment with the hanging weight as the independent variable is proven to show a correlation, shown by the graph above. this graph is known to be accurate, as the r value is 0.9999, and the error bars are all very large, with the points within each of them. this proves that hanging weight, or force, does in fact affect acceleration. the equation that was given by this experiment was that $a=\frac{f}{m}$. when looking at the graphs and plotting a trend line, the equation $y=0.0285 x - 0.026$ is found. this supports the $a = c1 w + c2$ model that was given, with the slope being the change in acceleration and the b being the initial acceleration. 

	secondly, the experiment with height changed also shows a correlation between increasing height and acceleration. the graph shown above which combines the three tests shows that the acceleration between each graph is noticeably different, proving the hypothesis correct. looking at the data from other groups, shown above, it is also known that there were other groups that yielded the same outcome, further supporting the hypothesis. the equation that was given by this experiment was   $y = 0.1375 x – 0.1618$ with the five blocks holding the track up. this supports the theoretical model of      $a = c1 w + c2$, shown by being the same setup and form. the extra forces affect this equation by decreasing the overall acceleration, where if they were removed it would be more similar to the equation from experiment 1.

	were a heavy string to be attached from the hanging weight to the cart, the acceleration would be increased. the reason for this is that due to the increase of force pulling down on the cart. as shown by the first experiment, if the force is increased, then the acceleration will increase as well, proving that the heavy string would increase acceleration.

	since there were very accurate measurement devices used, the sources of error will be a lot smaller. there are still a couple of sources, however. if the track was not completely frictionless, that would be systematic error and would throw off all the data in the lab. if the string ever got caught in the spool, that could cause random error, as it would throw off the force every now and then if it were to happen. some constraints that exist within the experiment, which would make it hard to recreate would be the technology that was used. the frictionless track alone would be difficult to obtain, but then on top of then, one would need a program to precisely measure speed and time, as well as somewhere to hang a mass from that could be attached to a cart. this lab would be quite difficult to reproduce without all of the devices that were used.