conclusion:
what affects the period of the pendulum?

the first experiment investigated whether or not the mass affected the period of the pendulum. the graph with mass vs. period of the pendulum shows points scattered in no particular pattern, proving there is no relationship between mass and the period of the pendulum. the error bars overlap, meaning the variation in data points can be attributed to random error. this claim holds true when the angle of release and the length of the string are held constant. 

the second experiment investigated whether or not the angle of release affected the period of the pendulum. the graph with angle of release vs. period of the pendulum shows points the slope upward. this proves that there is a positive correlation between the angle of release and the period of the pendulum. this claim holds true when the length of the string is held constant. the error bars of the graph do not overlap, meaning the points follow this upward sloping trend is not due to error.

the third experiment investigated whether or not the length of the string affects the period of the pendulum. the graph of length of string vs. period of the pendulum shows points that slope upward, proving there is a positive correlation between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum. this claim holds true when the angle of release of the pendulum is held constant or under 20 degrees. the error bars on the graph do not overlap or touch, so the trend is not due to error.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, where t is the period of the pendulum, l is the length of the string, and g is the acceleration. the model produced in lab is $t= 2.0902 l^{0.4197}$. when the data are plugged into the two equations, the answers are very close. when l is bigger, t is bigger, which is congruent with the claim made that the length of string has a positive correlation to the period of the pendulum (figure 9).  this is because the mass does not have an impact on the period of the pendulum, so it is unnecessary to include it in the model. the angle of release is not included in this theoretical model. this may be because angles under 20 degrees to not impact the period of the pendulum. the curve fitting for the angle of release vs. the period of the pendulum is exponential. the curve fitting for the length of the string is nonlinear. both of these curve fittings align with the two mathematical models.

random errors present in this experiment include, variation in stopwatch use, not setting the release angle to the exact degree, and not timing for enough periods…to reduce the stopwatch error, photogate was used to get a more accurate period. to make sure the angle of release was exact, multiple members of the group checked the angle before the bob was released. also, timing for more periods and repeating each trial more times would reduce any random error.

systematic errors present in this experiment include, not measuring to the center of mass when investigating different lengths of the string, not taking into account the mass of the string or ware and tear on the string. to fix the systematic errors, the length of the string was measured to the center of mass of the pendulum bob.

constraints from this experiment include the amount of time to collect data. if there was more time, many more data points could have been collected, showing a better trend on the graphs. another constraint is the accuracy of the data collection. the materials used gave decent results, but there was room for error.