discussion and conclusion

	what affects the period of a pendulum?  the three experiments help investigate this question by providing data that investigates the effect of the length of string, angle of release and mass of the pendulum affects the period of the pendulum.  the graph of mass versus period illustrates no trend between period and mass, which leads to the conclusion that mass has no effect on the period of a pendulum.  the graph of length versus period depicts a direct relationship between length and period, which provides the claim that length impacts the period of a pendulum.  the graph of angle versus period shows a direct relationship between angle and period, which establishes a claim that angle affects the period of a pendulum.

	the mathematical model of the period of a pendulum is given as  which depicts a relationship only between length and period.  the data fits with this model because length exhibits a direct relationship with period.  the graph of length and period have illustrates a direct linear relationship, which is correct.  the mass graph fits with the model because it has no noticeable relationship.  however, the graph of angle versus period exhibited a direct linear relationship, which could be do to a number of systematic or human errors.

human error could have a huge impact on the accuracy in the experiment.  one example of random error could be human error.  when conducting the experiment, failure to drop the pendulum exactly at the specific angle would skew the results of experiment and cause fluctuations.  one example of systematic error is an inaccuracy in the mass of the weights.  even though the weights are supposed to be a specified amount, there is still a possibility of an incorrect mass.  to fix human error, the experiment can be conducted again, but instead of somebody holding a protractor, the protractor can be fixed to the stand to get more precise measurements.  to bypass the possible inaccuracies of the masses, the weights could be weighed using a scale to insure the true mass of the weights.