discussion and conclusion:

	in this report we the main objective was investigating the research question “what impacts the period of a pendulum.” each of the independent variables we investigated in this experiment were thought to affect the period of a pendulum. in the case of the effect of mass on the period it was claimed that the larger the mass was the lower the period of the pendulum would be. though from the data presented in figure 4 it can be seen that mass does not effect the period of a pendulum. because of this it can subsequently be said that the mass of the pendulum does not in turn effect the period of a pendulum in this case.  now this claim will not have conditions in which make it valid, because the mass is proportional to the force. this provides the idea that as the mass increases so will the force and vice versa as mass decreases so will the force. now looking at the angle in which the pendulum is dropped the claim was that the larger the angle the farther the pendulum would travel. the data presented in figure 3 showed that the claim was unsupported and the angle does not in this case affect the period of a pendulum. though in some cases this claim could affect the period of a pendulum if the maximum angle also known as the amplitude is hit, though in most cases simply changing the amplitude does not necessarily change the period of the pendulum itself. in regards to the last claim which was that the longer the length of the string the longer the period of the pendulum would be. this claim was proven by the data in figure 2 which clearly shows a strong positive correlation between the two variables.  the claim would be valid in any condition, because it would be the main reason that the period of a pendulum would change. 

the period of a pendulum can be calculated through a theoretical mathematical model which in this case is . the data that was obtained during our experiment fits this model but rather then using the power model our best fit trendline was given by the polynomial model. this gave use the equation $y=0.3029 x^{2} + 1.7467 x + 0.772$ and an r^2 value of .9998. when evaluating the data above table 1/figure 1 as well as table 3/figure 3 it can be seen that there is a correlation between those variables which is also seen in the mathematical model. though there is no correlation presented within the data for table 4/figure 4 the mathematical model still has the ability to show that the variables do not have a strong correlation.  

every experiment has some form of error involved whether they are systematic or random, including this experiment though in this case they are all random errors. some errors that could’ve impacted the results would’ve been not being able to read the string length correctly or the angle at which the pendulum is off. the biggest mistake which can be found throughout all the data was the timing of the pendulum. in the future a good way to reduce the type of errors presented would be by having 1 person holding the pendulum at the designated angle while another checks to make sure it is correct. another would be by double or even triple checking that the length is correct. in regards to timing the of the pendulum the best method would be to have at least 3 people running the experiment. having multiple people timing the pendulum and then comparing the times could help lower error. another option is having more then one trial testing the same variable and then taking the average of those values. the only constraint that was presented in our experiment was the lack of group members, this created a large difficult in obtaining correct and error free data. this constraint is not necessarily universal and will not apply to all groups doing this experiment.