discussion and conclusion

the goal of this experiment was to test what impacts the length of a period on a pendulum. in deciding what factors to test, the team chose length of the string, the weight attached to the pendulum, and the angle of release as the possible variables that could impact period length. 

length of the string on the pendulum was tested first. in this test, the string length on the pendulum was changed several times. the weight was released at a specific constant angle by a single member of the team while three members timed the length of one period. as the tests were performed and graphed, there was a noticeable upward trend in the time of the period. this can be viewed in part 1 under graphs and data. in some areas, errors overlapped, but in many, there was no overlapping. it became apparent that increasing the angle of release of the pendulum has a positive impact on the period. this was again tested using the photogate in order to produce more accurate data which was used in error calculations. after these tests, the team determined the most effective way to alter the length of the period was to lengthen the string.

the next part of the experiment was viewing how the release angle affects the length of the period. this was done in the same fashion as the length of the string except the new independent variable is the release angle while the length became a constant. the graph of this data showed a very strong positive correlation between the angle of release and the length of the period. this was tested a second time with more precision using a photogate to measure the time of the period. these tests can be seen in the error analysis graph for angle of release versus period length. this confirms the angle of release has an impact on the length of the period.

in the third experiment, how the mass at the end of the pendulum affected the time of the period was tested. this was also tested by releasing the pendulum with constant length and angle to test several weights. because there are overlapping error bars in the error calculation, it can be said that the weight did not impact the length of the period. this disproved the hypothesis and prediction set by the team for this independent variable.

the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is . in this equation l is the length of string on the pendulum and g is the scientific notation for gravity. it makes sense that length would have the greatest impact on the time length of the pendulum because that is the most significant variable in the experiments.

there were many different causes of error that were identified in the experiments the team conducted. the three-person timing technique undoubtedly led to random error due to mis-timing the stopwatch or releasing the pendulum early or after the watches had already started. another possibility is that the angle of release was not measured correctly. these errors could result in shorter or longer times of the period. to reduce random error, more tests would need to be conducted or human interaction, which is hardly accurate, needs to be limited. this was done by using a photogate but there are many other ways this could be done. for example, the pendulum could be released by an automated mechanism. the use of the photogate reduced error in the experiments. systematic error could be attributed to faulty equipment or simple inaccuracy of equipment such as the tape measure or stopwatches.

overall generalizability was affected negatively by some aspects of the procedure. for example, the team was informed we had used angles of release that were too steep for the experiment. also, using human coordination with the stop watch led to a lot of error. using a photogate for the entire experiment would make the experiment more generalizable.