discussion and conclusion:

	these experiments are conducted to test whether the period of a pendulum is affected by the weight of the pendulum, the angle of release of the pendulum, and the string length of the pendulum. the effect of the weight on the period of the pendulum, shown by figure 1 and figure 2, is null. this conclusion is justified through the standard deviation, represented by the error bars as if they are twice as long, of the periods between 50g and 210g. the double length error bars between these two points intersect, meaning that these points could be the same value due to the inaccuracy of the experiment, meaning that a correlation between these two points, that follow the general trend of the data, cannot be drawn in this experiment. therefore, weight does not influence the period of the pendulum in this experiment. the effect of the angle of release on the period of the pendulum, shown through figure 3 and figure 4, is nonexistent. this conclusion is proven through the error bars of double length to represent the uncertainty of this experiment, specifically through the angles of 120 degrees and 165 degrees. the double length error bars between these two points intersect, demonstrating that a conclusion cannot be correlated between these points due to uncertainty, since these two points follow the general trend of the data and are near the endpoints of the data. therefore, the angle of release does not influence the period of the pendulum in this experiment due to uncertainty. the effect of the string length on the period of the pendulum, shown through figure 5 and figure 6, is an increase in the string length leads to a direct increase in the period of the pendulum. this direct relation between string length and period of the pendulum is justified through the standard deviation between the points of 0.38m and 0.20m. unlike the other two independent variables, the error bars of double length do not intersect between these two points, so the correlation between these two points is valid, even with the high uncertainty of the experiment. this is reinforced further through the error bars of figure 8, where the photogate is used to produce a lower uncertainty and the bars at the extremes do not intersect. therefore, since the trend of the line is a positivity sloped line, direct relationship exists between the string length and the period of a pendulum.

	the theoretical equation for the period of the pendulum, $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ where t is the period of the pendulum, l is the length of the pendulum, and g is the acceleration due to gravity, is reflected within our calculated in figure 8 of $y=2.0798 x^{0.3964}$ where y is the period of the pendulum and x is the length of the string. the coefficient of the theoretical equation, equal to 2*pi/sqrt(g), outputs a value on earth of 2.0071, which falls very close to the calculated value of 2.0798 found by the excel graph and justifies the coefficient of the equation. the power of the theoretical equation, equal to 0.5000, is very near the calculated 0.3964 of the calculated equation, justifying the power of the equation. therefore, the equation found through excel in figure 8 is proven through the theoretical equation.

	several possible systematic and random errors could be reduced in future experiments due to equipment and human error. although the stopwatch could be considered a systematic error due to a timer always clicking either too early or too late, in our experiment, the stopwatch time results were a random error. the times recorded for each experiment in figure 1, figure 3, and figure 5 are not precise and seem to randomly fluctuate between above or below its true value, acting as a random error in this experiment. to lower this random error, either more data points are taken to construct a more accurate average, or the use of a robotic measuring device for time, like the photogate used in figure 7 and figure 8, to more precisely and accurately measure the period of the pendulum. a systematic error for this experiment is air resistance constantly decreases the period of the pendulum. since there is air pressure inside of the lab room, the air particles interfere with the momentum of the pendulum during the experiments, and constantly decreases the time period of the pendulum due to the loss of momentum of the pendulum. this factor could be negated if the same experiment were to be conducted in a vacuum chamber, where no air particles would interfere with the momentum of the pendulum, and a more accurate reading could be taken for each experiment.

	there are several constants throughout these experiments, affecting the generalizability of the results in each experiment. for the experiment demonstrated in figure 1 and figure 2, the conclusion that weight does not affect the period of the pendulum only holds if the angle of release is held constant, as well as the string length. in figure 3 and figure 4, the conclusion that angle of release does not affect the period of the pendulum only holds if the weight and string length on the pendulum are held constant. in figure 5 and figure 6, the conclusion that the string length directly affects the period of the pendulum only is proven if weight and string length are held constant for the pendulum. all three of these experiments have the same rope for the string and metal for the weights, as well as similar air pressure due to altitude. the generalizability of the experiments conducted in figures 1-6 are not as generalizable as the experiment conducted in figure 7 and figure 8 due to accuracy and precision. although many times are taken for the period of the pendulum in each experiment, the data of the photogate experiment is more accurate, precise, and repeatable versus the first experiments. due to the precision of the first experiments as compared to the last experiment, the repeatable and accurate periods in figure 7 allow for a more accurate application of our sample size in our experiment to the greater population of experiments centered around the period of a pendulum, therefore being of a higher generalizability.