conclusion:
	For the three labs we did our research question was to, “Determine what effects the period of the pendulum by utilizing three separate independent variables?”. For experiment 1, it addressed the research question by having us experiment the three separate IVs. Our claims were that each independent variable would affect the period of the pendulum. This lab proved that the claim that the length would affect the period while it disproved that the mass and angle would affect the period. According to Graph 1, both the DV and IV have a positive correlation between each other. While for Graph 2 & 3, the DV and IV have no correlation showing that length has the only effect on the period of a pendulum. For experiment 2, we determined the possible errors in our data from lab 01. We found a random error in Graph 1, two random errors in Graph 2, and a systematic error in Graph 3. These random errors Our last lab was to determine to finalize exactly which independent variable had an effect of the period of the pendulum. According to Graph 1.1 & 2.1, we determined that both mass and angle did not affect the period, while length had a direct correlation with the period (view Graph 3.1). 
	The theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is shown with the IV being length while DV is the period. Angle and mass have no effect on the period, so they are not included in the mathematical model. According to Graph 1-3, this is shown with the length and period having a positive correlation while angle and mass have no correlation. Because angle and mass cause no change in the period of the pendulum they are not included in the mathematical model. Their graphs (2 & 3) show no change when altering their size and then testing them. While Graph 1 of length shows the direct impact on the period when changing the length of the string.
For the errors shown in Graph 1-3, the random errors in Graph 1 where reduced in lab 03 by making sure our dependent and independent variables were exact each time. For Graph 2 there was no need to reduce them but to do so would be like what we did for Graph 1 in lab 03. Lastly Graph 3’s systematic errors would have to be altered by using different measurement tools to reduce the errors themselves. There was something wrong when the person measured the data, or the tools were inaccurate causing a fault in the data points.
Throughout these experiments the constraints in them were the limit at which we could change the variables in each lab. If we were able to change them even more drastically, we could show the graphs a lot better of the correlation between period and the variables from each lab. There were no other constraints that would limit the generalizability of our results. 