discussion



the research question in this lab was what impacts the period of a pendulum? each of the three experiments addressed this question because in each experiment, there was a different independent variable that might have caused an impact. there were three claims made is  mass of the pendulum would impact the period, angle of release of pendulum would impact the period, and the length of the string would impact the period. the claim about mass impacting the period was false because when the mass of the pendulum was changed (figure 1) with everything else being kept the same (control variables), the period remained the same, which is shown by a horizontal line in the graph. the claim about the length of the string affecting the period was true for all points tested because as the length of the string was increased, the period increased (figure 2) and this can be seen in the graph with a line of best fit with a clear positive slope. the claim about angle of release was also true, but only for angles larger than 30 degrees (figure 3) because as shown in the graph, the points measured for angles under 30 overlapped in uncertainty and could potentially be the same value, but as angle increased over 30, the overlap in uncertainty decreased. the theoretical mathematical model used was a power relationship one, $t=\frac{4.0608}{m}$l^.4945], because there was a mathematical dependence of the period on the length of the string. this was determined after 10 trials of length vs. period were plotted in a graph and a trendline was achieved which had a r^2 value of .9996 which lead us to conclude that our data fit the trendline very well (figure 4). mass and angle of release (under 30 degrees) do not fit this model as well because for mass, the graphed data resulted in a straight line, and for angle, the uncertainty was too large compared to the length of the string. the random errors present in this lab could have been caused due to human error in using a stopwatch which would cause the timer to start/end too early or too late, horizontal bar to which the string was tied moving because it wasn’t tight enough. the systemic errors could have included incorrect weight measurements from the weighing machine, incorrect markings on the measuring tape, incorrect markings on angle measuring device, and not measuring length of pendulum to the center of mass. the systemic errors could be resolved by weighing masses on different machines, using different measuring tapes and angle measuring device, and trying to measure to the center of mass. the random errors could have been resolved by having multiple people time the period and ensuring that everything was tied tightly and there was no swaying. the constraints in this experiment were the maximum length of string we could use, the maximum amount of mass of pendulum and the highest angle of release without weights falling of the pendulum. if there were no constraints, then we could measure all data points and ensure that our results were consistent every time. we could test lengths from almost 0 to as long as possible, and all different angles, and masses ranging from almost 0 to 1000kg to ensure that our results were constant. air resistance, gravity, and friction could also have affected our results by slowing the period. these could be resolved by conducting the experiment in a vacuum, on a different planet, and on a frictionless surface.