discussion and conclusion

 the purpose of this lab was to determine what had an effect on the system. things such as height, weight, length of string, and friction were tested to see just what kind of effect it had on the system. the dependent variable was the acceleration because it varied based on which factor was being tested. also, the purpose of lab 05 was to develop mathematical models that describes the behavior of a real system. the purpose of lab 06 was to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value.

 the two experiments in lab 05 led to the mathematical models because as the force on the system increased, the acceleration increases as well. graph 1 (lab 05) had the equation $a=0.0029 f-2e^{-17}$ r2 is 1, and the graph corresponds because it constantly increases. graph 2 (lab 05) had the equation $a=147.39 m^{-1}$ r2 is 1, and the graph corresponded as well because the decrease was constant and the r2 value was directly 1, which means it is accurate. graph 1 (lab 06) had the equation $a=0.011 f+0.1665$ r2 is 0.5418. the value of r2 is smaller than 1 but not significantly. the graph still corresponds because as the force increases on the system, the acceleration increases as well, and the graph continuously increases.
 (photos presented below) the group featured in the first picture, had the hypothesis that a decline of the track increases the acceleration, and vice versa. this agrees with our hypothesis and prediction as well. however, their slope was much larger than ours and this could impact their mathematical model. the group featured in the second picture presented their mathematical model as $a=3.0942 f-0.818$, $a=2.8977 f$, and $a=3.1432 f-0.0986$. these models tell me that their acceleration was significantly higher than ours. i made a prediction that their r2 value (not written) was higher than 1.

 during this experiment, there was room for systematic and random errors. some systematic errors could be the system being too much on an incline, things being wrongly recorded, or the system being too heavy. random errors could have been the wrong measurements and not saving the data. all of these errors could be reduced by precisely recording measurements, picking a proper weight for the system, and being accurate with the data.

 constraints in this experiment that could limit the generalizability of the results are how many bobs can hang off of the end of the system, and how much weight could be put on the system.
 our two mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law because the total force is equal to the mass of the system times the acceleration.