discussion and conclusion

the purpose of labs 05 and 06 were to develop mathematical models to describe the motion of a real system and to gain an understanding of what each numeric value and variable means in the context of the model. the research questions being investigated in lab 05 were how the acceleration of a system changes when the mass of the hanging bobs changes, and how the acceleration of a system changes when the mass of the cart changes. figure 2 shows the linear fit on the data for the first experiment of lab 05 led to the mathematical model of  for the acceleration of the system in terms of the mass of the hanging bob. this model shows a positive correlation and linear relationship between mass and acceleration for a frictionless track where gravity, distance travelled, and the mass of the cart are held constant. figure 5 shows the exponential fit on the data for the second experiment of lab 05 led to the mathematical model of  for the acceleration of the system in terms of the mass of the cart. this model shows a negative correlation and exponential relationship between the mass of the cart and its acceleration for a frictionless track where gravity, distance travelled, and the mass of the hanging bob are held constant. 

the research question being investigated in lab 06 was how the acceleration of a system changes when the mass of the hanging bobs changes for different magnetic friction conditions. figure 5 shows the linear fit on the data for the first condition of four acting magnetic strips led to the mathematical model of  for the acceleration of the system in terms of the applied force. this model shows a positive correlation and linear relationship between force and acceleration even when magnetic friction is acting. figure 6 shows the linear fit on the data for the second condition of two acting magnetic strips led to the mathematical model of  for the acceleration of the system in terms of the applied force of the hanging bob. this model shows a positive correlation and linear relationship between force and acceleration when magnetic friction is acting. in addition, this mathematical model suggests that the acceleration when two magnetic strips are acting is slightly greater than the acceleration when four magnetic strips are acting. figure 7 shows the linear fit on the data for the third condition of no acting magnetic strips led to the mathematical model of  for the acceleration of the system in terms of the applied force of the hanging bob. this model shows a positive correlation and linear relationship between force and acceleration when no magnetic friction is present. in addition, this mathematical model suggests that the acceleration when no magnetic strips are acting is slightly greater than the acceleration for both conditions where magnetic strips were acting. a comparison of the three regression lines from lab 06 are shown in figure 8. other numerical values to consider are the values of the y-intercepts of the regression lines for figures 5-7. these values are all negative which does not make physical sense as newton’s second law states that the acceleration should be zero if no force is applied to the system. each of the y-intercept values, however, is close to zero and the slight variations are likely due to error.



presentation of findings

group 5 tested the effects of the magnetic strips on the acceleration of the system. according to their whiteboard, they claimed that as magnetic friction changes, the acceleration of the bobs will change. they also found the relationship between force and acceleration to be linear and positively correlated for each magnetic condition. their numeric values, while quite different from ours, represent the same trend that as magnetic friction increases, the acceleration of the system decreases.  



group 6 tested the effects of the angle of the track on the acceleration of the cart. their findings show that the relationship between mass and acceleration is linear and positively correlated for each angle. their data shows that as the angle below the horizontal increases, acceleration increases. it also shows that as the angle above the horizontal increases, acceleration decreases. group 6 used mass as one of their independent variables and my group used force, but according to their numerical values, the angle of the track when increased by 1.1o seemed to have a smaller impact on the acceleration of their system than the magnetic friction between the cart and the track when increased by two magnetic strips.


	errors were present in labs 05 and 06 that could have affected the results. for example, the triple beam balance was not zeroed before every lab which could cause a systematic error in the measured mass values if the balance was not already zeroed when the lab was started. in the future, the triple beam balance should be zeroed before every lab to minimize this error. in addition, the track was not completely frictionless which could have caused a systematic error in the measured accelerations of the system. this error was already minimized by using an air track, but any remaining friction might still affect the data. the levelness of the track was not checked before every lab either which could cause systematic errors in the data if it was slightly above or below the horizontal. in the future, the levelness of the track should be checked to minimize this error. random human errors could have been caused from reading the mass off the triple beam balance. this error could be minimized by using a digital scale in the future. although the string and the pulley were not massless and air resistance was not negligible, the purpose of this lab was to test the acceleration of the cart under real conditions so these would not be considered errors. 



	constraints in the experiments may limit the generalizability of the results. for example, the purpose of experiments was to develop mathematical models to describe the motion of a real system, but the specific values of the unideal conditions were not measured. for example, the mass of the string, mass of the pulley, and elasticity of the string in the original lab conditions are unknown. these conditions may affect the results, but they would be impossible to replicate as they were not measured. this may cause the mathematical models developed in the lab to be inaccurate for other conditions. 


	the lab 05 experimental mathematical model for the acceleration of the cart in term of the mass was determined to be . this is consistent with newton’s second law because it shows a positive correlation between the mass of the bob, which is proportional to the force due to gravity, and acceleration. in addition, it shows that when the applied force is zero, the acceleration should be very close to zero. this is similar to newton’s second law that states that when the applied force is zero for a nonzero mass, the acceleration must be zero. the lab 06 experimental model for the acceleration of the cart in terms of applied fore when no magnetic friction was acting was determined to be . this is consistent with newton’s second law because it shows that force and acceleration are positively correlated. it also shows that when the applied force is zero for a nonzero mass, the acceleration is nearly zero. this is similar to newton’s second law that states that the acceleration should be zero but may deviate slightly due to error.
