discussion and conclusion

		this lab evaluated the research question “how is the period of a pendulum for small factors affected by different factors?” in the first day of experimentation, three different independent variables were tested for a wide range of values. 

		when the mass of the object on the end of the string was varied, the trials were completed with a constant 30 cm long string and a 60° drop angle measured from vertical. figure 1 shows the graph of the resulting average periods and the corresponding masses. it can be claimed from the graph that the mass had no impact on the period of the pendulum. due to the overlap of the error bars of consecutive measurements and the largeness of the bars compared to the scale of the graph, there is insufficient data to claim that the values are statistically different from each other. this agreed with the team’s original prediction about the tested hypothesis is  the mass had no impact on the period of oscillation of the pendulum.

		the next tested variable was the drop angle of the pendulum. all angles were measured from vertical for this experiment, and the constants were a string length of 30 cm and a mass of 50 g. for each increase by 15° of the drop angle, the average period was calculated, and this information was then graphed in figure 2. in a similar way as with the mass graph, the error bars were large and overlapping. thus, it cannot be claimed that the angle of drop has an impact on the period of a pendulum. using the equivalency criterion, the group’s hypothesis that the angle had an impact on the period was not supported by the collected data.

		the group’s original hypothesis for varying the length of the pendulum was that the length does have an impact on the period. this variable was tested using a stopwatch to record the times, and for each increase in length, the average period of the pendulum was calculated. figure 3 shows the result of graphing this data. the power equation that models this data has an r2 value of 0.9993. with how close this value is to one, this shows that the model derived from the recorded data nearly perfectly fit all the data. this is usually a good indicator that the data and the model are accurate. the error bars for figure 3 are also much smaller than the error bars for the graphs of the previously tested variables. these bars are small enough that few, if any, overlap with each other, which indicates that a claim can be made that the measurements are different from each other. when measuring the periods with the photogate, the model created from the resulting data, shown in figure 4, had an r2 value of exactly one. the error bars on this graph are too small to be seen, which provides even more evidence supporting the claim that the values of average period for each length of the pendulum are different according to the equivalency criterion used in this course.

the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is , where t is the period in seconds, l is the length of the pendulum in meters, and g is the acceleration due to gravity in m/s2. looking at the equation of the graph of the photogate data in figure 4, the data gathered from this experiment supports this theoretical equation of a pendulum. to visualize this, it is necessary to first rearrange the theoretical equation.  can be rewritten as , and the whole equation can become .   can be calculated as about 2.007 because the acceleration due to gravity on earth is 9.8 m/s2, making the theoretical equation . looking at the equation determined from the graph of the photogate data, which was , substituting in the axis labels for the x and y of the equation yields , which, given the laws of exponents, is nearly equal to the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum. 

in comparing the group’s results from this experiment with some of the other groups’ results, it was noticed that not everyone chose to model the data in the same way. as seen in figures 5 and 6, some groups modeled the data as a linear function instead of a power function. in the previous paragraph, it was described how to transform the theoretical period of a pendulum into a form that could be compared to the data collected from the experiment. there is no way to make the equation linear, therefore a linear representation of the data is not technically correct. the unknown group’s data in figure 7 was modeled using a power function, but the discrepancies arose when the lengths were not converted to meters. all of the lengths were measured in centimeters, so either acceleration due to gravity must be converted to cm/s2, or the length values had to be converted to meters. our group decided to convert to meters for the creation of the equations, so it can be claimed that the model produced by our data is reasonable close to the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum. 

both random and systematic errors were present during the experimentation. using angles greater than about 60° caused the pendulum to oscillate sideways, and heavier masses bend the metal frame that the pendulum was hanging from. human reaction time also played a role in error for the data recorded with a stopwatch, and random error was also introduced with the person dropping the mass whose hand may have moved and caused the angle of drop to change. using a motion sensor, as was done when using the photogate, to measure the times would have eliminated the error due to reaction time and creating a guiding device to allow the pendulum to oscillate straight would have been beneficial. finding a way to hold the pendulum at a steady angle would make the data recorded more accurate as well. in an extreme case, performing the experiment inside of a vacuum would remove the factor of air resistance, and smoother and more rigid materials for the frame would decrease friction and reduce bending.

uncertainties in measurement caused the systematic errors of the experiment. the photogate had much less error associates with it than the stopwatch, but the error in length and angle measurements still had a decent impact on the data. instead of using a standard tape measure and protractor, any digital measuring device for these measurements, such as the photogate for time measurements, would have greatly reduced systematic errors.

the experiment was constrained to the pendulum lengths that cleared the ground when oscillating inside of the lab room. the measuring devices used were all as accurate as possible given the circumstances, but the uncertainties of measurement were also a constraint on the experiment. it was also not possible to perform as many trials as there should have been due to the constraint on time for the lab period. the generalizability of the results was limited to only the frames in which the tested values were included. the largest length tested was 110 cm, so the model derived from this data can only apply to lengths less than 110 cm and larger than 20 cm, which was the smallest length. in a similar way, the generalizability of the experiment is limited by the ranges chosen for testing of mass (50 g to 130 g) and drop angle (30° to 90° measured from vertical). 

this experiment ultimately tested which variables would affect the period of a pendulum. the theoretical equation indicates that the only variable impacting the period is the length of the pendulum, and the data collected supports this model.


