discussion and conclusion

the goals of experiments two and three were to text different variables in a pendulum system to see which variables do and do not affect the period of the pendulum. variables that were being tested were; mass in grams, length in cm, angle in degrees and the period in seconds. the first variable we tested was mass. period would be the dependent variable since period was being tested in these experiments. the length of the string was kept constant and the angle was kept 30 degrees. our group did five tests, with each test increasing the weight by 50 grams and the weight starting at 50 grams. each result was within reasonable range of one another. the results showed that the weight on the end of the pendulum will not affect the period of the pendulum. this confirms our hypothesis. we then tested to see if the angle at which the pendulum was released from would make a difference in the period. our group did four runs starting at 20 degrees and then adding 20 degrees each test ending a 80 degrees. the results showed that the angle at which the pendulum is released does not significantly affect the period of the pendulum. this confirms our hypothesis. the last test we did was length of the pendulum versus the period of the pendulum. we conducted five tests starting at 25 inches and then shortening the pendulum by 5 inches each time ending at 5 inches. the results showed that changing the length of the pendulum does affect the period of the pendulum. this confirms our hypothesis. we also reconducted this part of the experiment to a more detailed extent in lab three. 

	the reason why the period is affected by the length of the string is because as the length increases or decreases so does the radius of the pendulum. when the radius of the pendulum changes so does the length of the arc that the pendulum creates while its swing. less distance to travel back and forth means that the pendulum takes less time to make one complete swing. this increase/decrease in the time that the pendulum takes to swing is represented by the equation shown in figure 4.  $y=0.4761 x^{0.3918}$. this equation is a power equation because it gave us the highest r-squared value. 

figures 6-10- all of these figures are other groups experiment data. 	when analyzing the other groups data, we found that it was very similar to ours. their hypothesis was like ours and like us many of the groups had a power-based equation for their story mode. some errors were found while experimenting. these errors were; using a protractor to measure angle can result in human error and isn’t 100% accurate anyways. the masses may not be the exact weight they claim to be. 


