discussion and conclusion:

 the research question that was being investigated in this lab was what factors impact the period of a pendulum.

 in each of the three experiments, we isolated one factor by keeping the other two factors the same for each trial that we ran of that experiment making them the control variables of the experiment and made the factor that we were testing the independent variable and the period the dependent variable. this isolation of one factor allowed us to construct graphs that would show us what impact changing the independent variable had on the period of the pendulum. through multiple trials through each experiment, we were able to conclude that the only factor that we found impacted the period of a pendulum was the length of the string. we know this because if you look at figure 1, you notice that you cannot draw a horizontal line in the error bars meaning that even with possible errors and uncertainties there is enough change between the data points to conclude a coronation. if you look at both figure 3 and figure 4 you can draw horizontal bar through the error bars meaning that the increase or decrease in data from point to point could be due to error or uncertainty. we can only conclude this for angles equal or less than 30 degrees.

 the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=2 \pi$ which gives us confidence in our data and claim that we drew from it because if you look back at figure 2, the trend line of the graph is $t=2.1327 l^{0.36}$ which is a power law function like the theoretical model and our mathematical model also has an r^2 value of .9879 giving us more confidence that our mathematical model accurately represent our data. also, we notice that the only variable used in the theoretical model besides gravity is the length which means that our conclusion that both angle and weight do not impact the length of a pendulums period and the length of the string does is backed by the theoretical model.

 some systematic errors that were present in this experiment were holding the protractor off center, weights weren’t the weight they claimed to be and measuring above or below the value we recorded that we measured for the length of the string. some random errors that occurred during this lab were inconsistency in the starting and stopping the timer, angles not precisely measured due to our ineffective techniques, and the pendulum swinging not directly side to side and being released at a side angle. some things that we could do to improve these errors are using a precise release mechanism, utilizing a consistent technique for starting and stopping timer such as a photogate for all data, record the actual weight of the weights, and secure the protractor in place with the 90-degree line perpendicular with the floor.

  some constraints that occurred in this experiment that could have limited our results was that we couldn’t use any angles above 30 degrees, we couldn’t test with different gravitational forces, and that we couldn’t control air resistance or friction which might have changed from trial to trial due to increase or decrease of surface area from adding and dropping weights and surface area of the contact point between the string and device to suspend the pendulum.