Discussion:
As you can see, the graph pictured above shows a positive correlation between the mass of the bob and the acceleration of the car, telling us that the mass of the bob does indeed increase the acceleration of the car. This result supports our original hypothesis written in our experimental design template above as we suspected the acceleration to increase alongside the mass of the bob.
After gathering all our data from our trials displayed in the graph above, we were able to come up with an equation for acceleration based upon our graph is 
$na=0.0277  M +0.0156$
	When looking at the above equation, we can deduce that in increase in the independent variable results in an increase in the dependent variable, which once again supports our original hypothesis
	As you can see, the graph pictured above shows a negative correlation between the mass of the car and the acceleration of the car, telling us that the mass of the car decreases the acceleration of the system. This result supports our original hypothesis written in our experimental design template above as we suspected the acceleration to decrease alongside the mass of the car.
After gathering all our data from our trials displayed in the graph above, we were able to come up with an equation for acceleration based upon our graph is 
$a = 1.0313 e^{-0.002 M}$ 
	When looking at the above equation, we can deduce that in increase in the independent variable results in a decrease in the dependent variable, which once again supports our original hypothesis. 
In addition, we were tasked during the lab period to write our specific mathematical model on the blackboard alongside all the other groups to compare. The picture below shows this.
When comparing our group’s two mathematical models alongside the mathematical models of groups who tested the same variables, we can see that the equations are very similar which aids in confirming that our two mathematical models are accurate and correct. 
As you can see, the two graphs pictured above tell us that an increase in inclination of the front side decreases the acceleration of the car, and an increase in inclination on the opposite side results in an increase in the acceleration. This supports our original hypothesis written in our experimental design template above as we suspected the acceleration to decrease with an increase in angle on the front side and suspected the acceleration to increase with an increase in angle on the back side.
The mathematical models of each height, shows in the graphs above, allow us to be very confident in our data because we can see that the trendlines of our two graphs pass through the points almost perfectly, in addition to giving us R values that are extremely close to a value of 1. When comparing our equations to the theoretical mathematical model of $a=C1 w+C2$, we noticed a few similarities and were able to connect the two equations to one another. C1 represents the slope of the graph in the lab which is the slope from the graphs of the accelerations. The Value for C1 for the Angle change on the front of the rail is 2.9329, 2.8722, and 2.9018, and for the angle change on the back of the track is 2.910, 2.8805, and 2.8912. The two values are very close given the parameters of the lab. C2 represents the y-intercept of the equation of the graphs, its values for the Angle change on the front of the rail is 0.0054, -0.0001, and -0.0201, and for the angle change on the back of the track is 0.0314, 0.0531, and 0.0651. The value marginally compares to the force applied on the cart for the positive results C2 is any external forces acting on the cart.
In addition, we were tasked during the lab period to write our equations and original hypothesis on our given whiteboard and exchange information with a myriad of other groups, with some of them choosing different independent variables or having different systems.
Overall, each of our hypotheses regarding the behavior of the acceleration of the car in relation to each independent variable were correct throughout all experiments. The weight of the bob, the weight of the sled, and height of the track all resulted in some change in the acceleration of the system. Although our data supports our hypotheses, there is still room for improvement because there is a myriad of different errors, as discussed above, that could be eliminated if we were to better design our experiment.
In conclusion, I believe that these two weeks of lab pertaining to this acceleration system have aided in helping us understand how acceleration and mass are related by use of Newton’s law of $F=m a$. By building on the scientific procedures used during the first few weeks, such as designing an experimental design and designating variables and independent and dependent, we were successfully ale to create an experiment, record our data, and derive our own unique equation that related our chosen independent variables to the acceleration of the system.
With every trial we performed in both lab 5 and lab 6, the possibility of error is always present. One of these potential errors is human error, such as not placing the car in the same spot every time, not properly measuring the height of our spacers could result in error. We think that we were able to avoid these errors to a certain extent because we made sure to set the car at the same position, and we were given a very accurate measurement tool to determine the exact height of each of our metal spacers