discussion and conclusion 

the hypotheses for lab 05, as the hanging weight increases, the acceleration decreases and as the mass of the system increases, the acceleration will decrease, tested in part one of this experiment were both found to have impact the acceleration of the glider. just as figure 1 shows, as the hanging weight (iv) increases, the acceleration (dv) increases in a positive correlation with a linear relationship. the r^2 value, being close to 1,  represents a near perfect positive relationship with overlapping error bars allowing us to assume the difference between the two means is not statistically significant and accept the hypothesis. as shown in figure 3, as the mass of the system decreases (iv), the acceleration decreases with a negative correlation with a power relationship allowing us to accept the hypothesis for this scenario also. some factors that might affect the acceleration of a system could be friction and/or force. in order to conduct the necessary experiments to test the effects of friction and force on acceleration, a different set up would be needed because the technical set up does allow for any friction or force to be present. we might consider doing the same experiment but measuring the acceleration by the push force applied on the glider. force and acceleration are directly proportional to one another. therefore, as mass stays constant, then force and acceleration will have a positive correlation with a linear relationship. one improvement that could be made in this experiment is having weights of all the same size instead of three weighing 50g and the other three weighing 100g. other improvements that could be made are being sure to start the glider at the same position for each trial and being sure to start the program at the same time as turning the glider on.

the hypotheses for lab 06, as the hanging weight increases with increased incline, the acceleration will decrease and as the hanging weight increases with decreased incline(decline), the acceleration increases. in lab 06, the same set up and system of measuring as used in lab 05 was used to measure the acceleration of the system, by increasing hanging weight to change the acceleration. in addition to that, three other models in which a slight incline, a bigger incline and a decline were used and the experiment was repeated. the numerical value in the selected mathematical model($a=c1 w+c2$) represents how the hanging weight affects the acceleration and how it increases as the hanging weight also increases. this relates to the theoretical equation($a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$ because as we increased the hanging weight of the system, the acceleration was increases. the numerical value of the acceleration was found to be decreasing as the incline was being increased and it became greater as we added a decline. our data does not clearly support our claim. the incline for trail 2 generated a smaller slope than the decline showing that the acceleration would increase as the decline increases and decrease as the incline increased. however, the slope of incline 1 and the slope of the decline are relatively close to each other so there is not enough evidence to fully support the claim made. in every model, the acceleration increased as the hanging mass increased. this was the same for the equations from the other two groups results used in comparison. some possible errors that could have occurred in this experiment were timing issues between when the track started and when the timer on the computer started, recording errors within the machine/software used, and error while reading the scale when measuring the masses. some improvements that could be made if this experiment was repeated would be to take extra time making sure each run is done correctly and accurately and to make sure the timer and machines are started at the correct time and in the correct positions.