	conclusion:
	What factors impact a pendulums period for swings under 30 degrees? The investigation of mass tested if mass would increase or decrease the period of a pendulum. The investigation showed that mass does not impact the period of a pendulum. In Figure 1 it can be seen that there is no correlation and the error bars, with an equivalency criterion of +/- 2 standard deviations, can have a single horizontal line drawn through them which indicates none of the times for the period of the pendulum can be said to be different. The calculated standard deviation for the periods of the pendulum were 0.03 seconds. This claim holds when the starting angle is less than 30 degrees. The investigation of angle of release tested if the angle that the pendulum was released from impacted the period of a pendulum. The investigation showed that the angle of release does not impact the period of a pendulum. In Figure 3 it can be seen that there is no correlation and the error bars, with an equivalency criterion of +/- 2 standard deviations, can have a single horizontal line drawn through them. This indicates that none of the periods of the pendulum can be said to be different. The calculated standard deviation for the periods of the pendulum were 0.03 seconds. This claim holds when the starting angle is less than 30 degrees. The investigation of length of a pendulum tested if the length of the pendulum impacted the period of a pendulum. The investigation showed that the length of a pendulum does impact the period of a pendulum. In Figure 2 it can be seen that there is a very strong power function relation between length of a pendulum and period of a pendulum. The R squared value is 0.9988 which indicated that the relationship is very strong and the difference between the actual data points and the trendline are minimal. The error bars in Figure 2 are too small to be seen but and equivalency criterion of +/- 2 standard deviations was used with an error of 0.001 seconds. This claim holds when the starting angle is less than 30 degrees.
	The theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is given as  . The model found in the investigation of the length of the pendulum against the period of the pendulum is given in Figure 2. The coefficient found in the theoretical model, when g is equal to 9.8, is 2.0071 while the coefficient in the calculated model is 2.1114. The exponent on the length in the theoretical model is 0.5 while the calculated model has a value of 0.4393. Errors in the measuring of length and a different value for gravity could account for the differences in the equations. The calculated model is close to the theoretical model and could with more practice and precision that calculated model could be brought closer to the theoretical model.
	Random errors that occurred were the reaction time of humans when taking the period of a pendulum with a stopwatch. This error was reduced by taking the average time of 3 swings and then dividing that time by 3 to get the time for one period. That time was then averaged with another person’s times. During the investigation of the length against the period of a pendulum, a photogate was used to eliminate the random error of the reaction time of humans. Another random error would be the type of release of the pendulum. If the pendulum got stuck to a human hand or slipped to the side instead of falling straight along the path. This error was reduced by using a booklet with a flat and slippery surface to reduce this random error. Another random error was the measurement of the angle with a protractor. The angle could change during trials due to misalignment by the human eye. This error was reduced by putting a white board behind the pendulum and hanging it by a fixed bar. A mark was then set on the white board to indicate the angle so each trial would be started from the same mark. A systematic error that occurred was the measurement of the length. When taking measurements of the length, the width of the platform that the pendulum was suspended from was not considered. This error could have been accounted for by finding the width of the platform and subtracting it from the total length of the pendulum.
	A constraint that may limit the generalizability of the results is that the pendulum could not be brought above 30 degrees. All the data collected does not account for angles that are greater than 30 degrees. This leads to ambiguity as to what happen when the angle is greater than 30 degrees and further investigations would have to occur in order to make the results more general. Another constraint is the absence of air resistance. Without a way to test the pendulum under air resistance we could not generalize the results to include pendulums that do experience air resistance. 