conclusion:
the question being researched in this lab is: what variables impact the period of a pendulum?

 each of the three experiments we performed addressed the research question because they each tested a different variable of the pendulum is  mass, release angle, and string length. our group concluded that the only variable that effects the period of a pendulum (ignoring wind resistance) is the length of the string. the conditions under which this statement is true are if all other factors stay constant, including negligible wind resistance, and no errors in the testing procedure. the graphs of our data prove this because there is no trend on either the mass vs. time graph of the release angle vs. time graph that shows a relation between either of those two variables and time. the string length vs. time graph shows a direct positive correlation between string length and time. as the string length increases, the length of the period increases as well.

 the mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=1.99 x^{0.5}$ where t is time and x is string length. we believe the data we recorded is accurate according to this model because we would be able to create an almost identical graph by plugging in the numbers on our graph. however, we did encounter an error when creating an equation from the graph we created, and it did not match the theoretical equation. we do believe that we came to an accurate conclusion with the claim that the only variable that effects the period of a pendulum is string length because time and string length are the only tow variables included in the equation. 

 to our knowledge, our group did not encounter any systematic errors. we did, however, have problems avoiding random errors caused by human error. we were having trouble recording perfect time measurements using stopwatches, but we were able to switch to photo sensors in a later experiment, which almost completely eliminated the chance for error in our time measurements. although we improved on our time recordings, we were not able to improve our release angle measurements without better equipment. we had to rely on two group members to create and maintain a consistent release angle for each test. the only tools we had available to do so were a protractor, and a human holding the pendulum with his hand. this is not a very accurate method of recording data because it is not possible for humans to remain completely still. 

 constraints in this experiment that limit the generalizability of our claims are that we still were not able to conduct a perfect procedure because we did not have perfect testing equipment. although we were able to use a sensor to record an almost perfect time measurement, we still did not have a way to ensure that our release angle was consistent every time. our release angel most likely varied a degree or two with each test.