conclusion for length:

after repeating this trial of testing whether the length of a string effects the period of a pendulum three times using three different methods, it can be concluded that the length of the string does affect the period of a pendulum. this can be concluded by stating that as the length of the string increases, the period of the pendulum also increases. this conclusion can be drawn by looking at both table 3 and figure 3. when looking at table 3, it is evident that the length of the period increases. figure 3 makes it easier to draw a conclusion because the slope shows a correlation, and the error bars are small and cannot even be seen. the small error bars do not overlap with any other values, allowing one to conclude that there is an increasing trend.

when looking at the theoretical equation, $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, for a pendulum, it is easier to understand why the mass hanging from the pendulum and the angle the pendulum is released from does not affect the period of the pendulum. it is easier because neither mass or angle are present in the theoretical equation, therefore, they would not affect the period, t. the conclusion that the length of the string affects the pendulum is supported because length is in the equation and is divided by gravity, therefore, the larger the length, the larger the number. if gravity was divided by the length, then the larger the length, the smaller the period. however, that is not the case.

throughout this experiment, both random and systematic errors became present. the two major random errors present in the experiment were the reaction time of the person using the stopwatch and incorrectly measuring the length of the string. in order to minimize the random error when using a stopwatch, a photogate was used to measure the time. this device was more accurate and had an uncertainty of 0.001 seconds. to decrease the error of measuring the string, the person performing the experiment should be sure to measure from the top of the string to the center of mass of the object hanging from the string instead of measuring from one end of the string to the other. fixing this, allows people reperforming the experiment to get close results to the one’s given in this experiment. the systematic errors present in this experiment include the uncertainty in the protractor, tape measure, stopwatch, and triple beam balance. these errors can be reduced by performing multiple trials and averaging the results.


	throughout the duration of the experiment, the biggest constraint that had to be followed in order to get accurate results was making sure that the angle the pendulum was released from was below 30 degrees. this is important because when testing the angle, we saw that if the angle became too big, the string would become loose when the mass is initially released, thus, affecting the period. therefore, a smaller angle gives more accurate results.