discussion and conclusion

the research question being investigated in this experiment was “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?” in the experiment, mass versus the period of the pendulum, the claim that was made was that there is no correlation between the independent variable and the dependent variable. this can be determined by looking at figure 1. the next experiment conducted was the angle dropped versus the period of the pendulum. by looking at figure 2, it can be determined that there is a negative correlation between the independent and dependent variables. this claim helps prove the hypothesis, as the angle increases (gets closer to zero), the pendulum period will increase. the final experiment conducted was the length of string versus the period of the swing. figure 3 shows that the correlation between the independent and dependent variables is positive. this graph supports our claim that as the string length increases, the pendulum period will increase.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is $y=- 0.3029 x^{2} + 1.7467 x + 0.772$ with a r^2 of .9998. the trendline used in this data was a polynomial because it best fit the graph and gave the highest r^2 value. the data from table 2/figure 2, and table 3/ figure 3 show that there is correlation between the variables just like the mathematical model. although there is no correlation in the data from table 1/figure 1 it can still be shown that there is not a 100% correlation between the variables in the mathematical model. 

the errors that occurred in these experiments were all random errors. due to not being able to tell if the string is exactly at the correct length it should be or if the angle of the drop is a little off could impact the results slightly. one of the biggest errors was the timing of the experiments. these errors can be reduced in the future by having 1 person hold the pendulum while another makes sure it’s at the correct angle it needs to be dropped at. double checking the length of the string to ensure it’s at the correct length. for the timing, it would be easier to have more than 1 person running a stop watch and you can compare the times each person gets or just conducting multiple trials of the same variable and finding the average. there is not really any constraint but one constraint that put our results in jeopardy is the lack of people in the group so it's harder to get everything where it needs to be.