discussion:


the data that was collected from experiment three revised with the length of string as the iv backs our hypothesis when further tested as decreasing the length of string decreases the pendulum’s period. this was interpreted from the negative slope of the graph. the error bars used are .01% of the vertical axis representing the error that was determined by the use of the photogate. these error bars are much harder to see because of the accuracy of the photogate. the equation for the graph is $y=1.5892 - 0.0284 x$ the y value is the period of the pendulum measured in seconds. the x value is the length of string measured in centimeters. the r^2 of the graph is 0.885 indicating that the line of fit is close to one, which states that the line of fit is a valid representation of the slope of the data.



	the experiments performed supported our initial hypothesis of each iv. however, when the mathematical model was discussed and how it maps the period of a pendulum our pervious data was left inconclusive for two of the three ivs, so further testing of the iv that supports the model was necessary. when the data was gathered from lab 03 for the length of string as iv and it was interpreted we then were able to not only back our final hypothesis but back the mathematical model that governs the period of a pendulum. as discussed in the “errors experienced” section the errors the were found were minimized by redundancy of collecting data. however, the errors that were encountered still limited the results from being extremely accurate. if it were possible to rig the pendulum to release from a set height instead of a human, then the data can be even more accurate. following up with the last point reducing any human interaction i.e. the photo gate reduces any errors that can experienced and over all increases the validity of the data collected. 



	in conclusion the experiment of testing the independent variables affecting the period of a pendulum as the dependent variable was used to familiarize the group with the tools and methods at hand. through testing the weight, length of string, and angle of release the team was able to formulate a hypothesis, collect data, reduce errors, and interpret the data. after the data was interpreted we were able to look back at any of the errors that were encountered and discuss how to minimize them for further experimenting. also, with interpreting the data allows us to discuss our hypothesis and determine if it was valid or if it needed to be redone and retested to prove it. there were little constraints on our experiments besides the human error in recording and measuring the ivs of the experiment, and taught valuable lessons for conducting accurate experiments in the future.