conclusion:
In the above graphs you can see the relationships between the Degree, Weight, and Length Vs. the Period and how adjusting each variable can have an affect on the period of a pendulum. Our Method of testing each was to use two hand-held stopwatch timers for each trial and average out the time to get a more exact time for each trial, and if there were any outliers, we re-tested those values. For the Degree vs. Period graph our controlled variables were 67 cm. and 110 grams changing the angle for each trial, and for the Mass vs. Period our controlled variables were 40 o and 67 cm. adjusting the 
												
mass for each trial. The hand-held timers were used for these two experiments wile the next two graphs show the length vs. period relationship and as you can see length effects the period by a greater degree than the other two tests, so we used a high-speed photogate timer to get more exact times on the length vs period test. Each test was trying to see what effects the period of a pendulum’s swing most, whether it was length, mass, or angle of the drop was the main goal of this lab. Each experiment tested the period effected by a different variable, and when put into a graph you can see the how the variable speeds up the swing or if it takes longer to complete a swing. All the tests were to have certain variables controlled and we kept those variables consistent throughout the experiment even testing the controlled variables as a baseline on the first day. 
	The mathematical model for period of a pendulum is $T=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{L}{g}}$ this says that L is length g is gravitational acceleration and T is the time of the period. As you can see from the equation Degree and mass are not at all effecting the time of a period and only Length is in the equation causing the graph to have a greater positive slope than the other two variables graphs. The other graphs should theoretically have a flat slope, but there are certain errors that could have affected why they were not flat. The degree and mass experiments were not as exact as the length experiment, because the hand-held timers are not as precise as the photogate timer and they also come with human error. More human error was seen when releasing the pendulum and measuring the swing, there could have been a force applied to the pendulum upon releasing or even the angle could have been knocked off its path when waiting between measuring and timing the swing. This error could have been removed with more exact instrument and more trials to remove the outliers. There were not many constraints in this lab, but some include a time limit reducing the number of trials that we were able to compete, instruments with not as precise measurements, as well as a limit of the length of string and mass. 