discussion and conclusion

	what affects the period of a pendulum?  in lab 1 we dove into this research question testing three independent variables to answer this question.  the three independent variables, which were the angle of release (measured in degrees), mass of the pendulum (measured in grams), and length of string (measured in centimeters).  our claim for lab 1 was that only the length of string affected the period of a pendulum.  we came to this claim because according to our figures 1, 2, and 3 only the length of string changed the period significantly even with the error bars.  figures 2 and 3 proved that with the uncertainty and error bars, the mass of the pendulum and the angle of release did not change the period of the pendulum.  lab 1 is met under the conditions of being tested in an indoor classroom, have no air resistance, time with a stop watch, use a protractor for measuring angle of release, and using a scale to measure mass of pendulum.  lab 1 mainly focused on how to form a hypothesis and how to make a claim.  lab 2 mainly focused on error discussion and how to calculate error.  we found a random error being the stopwatch.  timing with a stopwatch provided a random error in which we calculated and put in our figures using the error bars.  we tested the error by making a table, which is lab 2 table 2, to show how the stopwatch provided timing errors.  we used this table to calculate a mean of 1.342 and a standard deviation of .018868. with this information we were able to add error bars and be able to make better claims.  lab 3 focused on creating a mathematical model for the period of a pendulum.  the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is 2*pi*square root(l/g). lab 3 figure 1 is the visual representation of this data.  this graph shows how the length of the pendulum affects the period of the pendulum. l represents the length of the pendulum. the mass of the pendulum and the angle of release is proved in this mathematical model to not affect the period of the pendulum as they have no variables in the equation.  the main error in this lab was using the stop watch.  this error was reduced by using a photo gate.  using a photo gate in future experiments will help reduce random timing errors caused by a stop watch. the constraint of this lab was the time constraint.  the time constraint reduced the amount of trials we could run, therefore hindering our results.  if we could have more time and have more trials, our data would have more accurate results.