conclusion:

the purpose of this lab was to determine which factor of a pendulum has the greatest effect on the time of the period. the first test we tried was seeing if changing the mass at the end of a pendulum would change the time for one period. if you refer to 1.1 and the times recorded on table 1, you will notice that there was not really any correlation between adding weight and the time of a swing. therefore, we were able to refute the claim that a heavier pendulum will produce a shorter period. on the second test, the focus was placed on the drop angle and looking for any impacts here. we made the hypothesis that a less severe drop angle would result in a shorter period, and our data actually turned out to kind of support this claim. although there wasn’t a huge difference in time of a period, if you look at graph 2.1, you can really see a positive correlation between the independent and dependent variable, drop angle and time. since the change in time of period was so small, we cannot definitively say that there is a correlation here. finally, our last test was to observe the effects when changing the length of the string. our hypothesis came out to be that the longer the string, the longer the period, and graph 3.1 really supports this data as there is an obvious positive correlation shown. our findings can be explained by looking at the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum, which is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. as you can see in the equation, length is the only variable used out of the factors we tested, so it would make sense that this test is the only one that would provide results that could lead to a claim of correlation. looking at table 3, the time values are noticeably higher for only a 5 cm change. therefore, it is safe to say that the length of a pendulum does have an impact on the time of one period of a pendulum swing. 

	throughout any experiment, there are going to be at least some errors, systematic or random. in our experiment, the main error was random error in the form of using our eyes and pushing a button to try and determine when the pendulum was at the top of its swing. we were able to reduce this error however by having three different people each record ten data points, this allows for a larger sample size and a reduced random error. although this is not perfect, it did help our calculations become a lot more precise. another error that was seen with this experiment was the inability to be perfect on the drop angle every single time. our measure out as accurately as possible the string length. for this experiment, there weren’t really any constraints that we faced, other than not having the best equipment possible, such as exact timers, and something to drop from the same spot every time.