discussion and conclusions:

throughout the 2 labs, the same thing is being investigated – what are the behaviors of a real system and develop mathematical models for said behaviors. also develop understanding of variables included in the model.
the first experiment was testing mass vs. acceleration. as shown in table 1.1b, the mass was changed numerous amounts of times, which led to a resulting acceleration. once data was collected and graphed (shown on graph 1.1c) the mathematical model became $y=\frac{201.82}{x^{0.918}}$ where y is acceleration (m/s) and x is mass (g). our conclusion became that as mass increases, the acceleration will decrease, which can be observed by looking at the same graph mentioned above. initially, a small increase in mass would yield a great decrease in acceleration but leveled off when mass was very large.
the second experiment was testing force vs. acceleration. table 1.2b shows that the number of bobs was changed many times, effectively changing the downward force that led to a change in acceleration. this data was graphed (graph 1.2c) and used to create a mathematical model, $y=0.0285 x - 0.0263$ which is linear. y is the acceleration (m/s) and x is the amount of force in g acting on the cart. the conclusion of this experiment was that as the force increased, so did the acceleration, which directly relates to the equation stated above because as x increases so does y.
the third experiment was testing angle vs. acceleration. tables 1.3b1-1.3b3 show that the tilt of the track was changed multiple times, which lead to a change in the acceleration. this data was graphed onto one (graph 1.3.c) and mathematical models were created for each data set. surprisingly, all the models were the same except for the y intercept (b). $y = 0.1345 x - b$ was the general model, where x was the force (g), y was the acceleration in (m/s), and b was the height of the tilt (m). b changed depending on the tilt of the track. as the tilt increased, the initial acceleration decreased, but the slope of the acceleration was the same for all masses. 
seeing these groups not only confirmed our findings, but they also added insight on the 4th experiment that we did not do. this experiment involved changing the friction of the glider and how that affects acceleration. it was found that as friction increases, the acceleration decreases, specifically the slope of the acceleration decreases more significantly than without friction.	
throughout the experiment, there were many errors that could have caused uncertainty in the data. the main error that could be would be the systematic error of the program we used to measure the velocity vs time. the machine could be uncalibrated and caused a skew in our data due to that. another error could have been finding the slope of the velocity vs. time graph constructed by the program. this was done by hand and could have easily been messed up by random error (human error). thankfully we foresaw this as being a potential harm to the data, so we conduced much more trials than were needed to minimize this random error from occurring greatly.
the constraints of this experiment was that it can only be conducted on earth with the same gravitational force of 9.81 m/s because that was all that we could test. this change in gravity could change the downward force of the bobs that would inherently affect the acceleration. also, the gravitational force would also change the normal force of the cart and therefore change the amount of friction explained in the 4th possible experiment mentioned above.
the first mathematical model is consistent with newtons second law of motion because as mass increased, the acceleration decreased. since the gravitational force was greater (since the mass was greater) the forward force had to become less, therefore making the acceleration decrease. the second model was consistent with the second law of motion because as the force increased, the acceleration also increased. it is simple to know that if there was more force added into a system, then the system will increase the acceleration to make the system stay in equilibrium.
overall, the experiment to test how the behavior of real system works went as expected with minimal downfalls.