discussion and conclusion.
the purpose of lab 5 was to determine how the movement of masses on m1 and m2 affected the acceleration of the system on a frictionless environment. the data was used to identify trends present in the data for acceleration compared to different amount of masses and develop a mathematical model that used the independent and dependent variables to graph data points. experiment 6’s purpose was to confirm the trend observed in experiment 5 (changing mass of m1) and also to identify how friction influenced the acceleration of the system. both of these identifiable factors were used to develop and understanding of how each variable increased of decreased the data on the graph and also gave an idea of how the numerical values were present in the experiment through the use of the added independent variable to the experiment. 

the three experiments were each conducted with multiple attempts to ensure data collected was not an outlier and the data was reliable. conducting the experiments and placing the data into excel to obtain mathematical models and r squared values for the data allowed for the trends to be identified for each experiment. experiment 1 where m2 was changed and mass of the system m/s^2 remained the same showed a positive linear relationship with the data with accelerations ranging from 0.133 at 5 grams of mass and increasing to1.08 m/s^2 at 40 grams of mass and model $y=2.7674 x - 0.0138$. experiment 2 showed the relationship between the change in mass of m1 while m2 remained constant and the acceleration of the system was once again recorded. the trend shown was a negative power relationship with max 1.1 m/s^2 at 340 grams and a minimum of 0.162 at 640 grams and model $y = 2e^{07} x-2.855$. experiment 3 was used to identify the effect that friction would have on the experiment conducted on experiment 1. 3 sets of data were collected with different placements of added mass onto m1 and the relationship for each data set followed the linear relationship shown in experiment 1. the models for the data were $y = 0.75 x - 3.1833$ for weight on top, $y = 0.79 x - 5.15$ for weight in middle, and $y = 0.865 x - 9.375$ for the weight on bottom and the trend that the closer the weight is to the center of the track, the faster the acceleration of the system. 

groups 2 and 3 whiteboard presentation of experiment 2 displayed above respectably. group 2 preformed the same experiment with moving mass on m1 and group 3 shows data from increasing the incline with same conditions otherwise. the data from both groups helps confirm the trends observed in experiment with force acting on system being represented by f and acceleration of system being shown as a. difference from collected data from our own group can be attributed to random error in the experiment.


errors that may have been present were greatly reduced through the use of computer software as seen by the very small error bars however errors may have still been present. systematic errors that may have been present was imperfect placements of additional weight in experiment 3, the frictionless track malfunctioning in experiment 1 and 2, or inaccurate scale readings when calculating mass to add. random errors present may have been attributed to improper additions of weight to system, misinterpreting data graphed by the computer software, or improper set up of system on the track. systematic errors could have been reduced by taking even more tests for each amount of weight and random errors could have been reduced through extra human care in the experiment. 

constraints present in the experiment that limit generalizability of results can be attributed to the limited range of mass present in the experiment not allowing for the trend to confirm data for very large quantities of mass when creating the trendline as well as the non-discriminant placement of additional weight when conducting experiment 6 due to relative areas being given compared to an exact measurable location to associate a quantitative amount to the data collected.

the experimental mathematical models relate to newton’s second law of the sum of forces is equal to mass of the system times acceleration in the sense that the movement of mass around the system increased the acceleration as shown in all mathematical models collected (x representing force, y representing acceleration).

when positive negative or negative forces were being applied on the system, the acceleration would correspond in a similar way with experiments 1 and 3 and a negative power trend in experiment 2 in accordance with newton’s second law.

