conclusion:
	in this report we investigated what factors impact the period of a small-scale swinging pendulum. we predicted that the time varies directly with he pendulum length and increases to pendulum length will cause an increase in period time. additionally, we predicted that changes in release angle and pendulum mass do not affect the period time. according to figures 3 and 4, our hypothesis and prediction that mass and angle do not affect period seemed to be correct and they were not modelled further. this was determined by overlapping error bars in accordance with previously discussed variance calculations in figure 2. in contrast, figure 5 showed a relationship that exceed our error bounds so changes in string length were selected for a more rigorous modelling process in figure 1. 

the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is given by $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. this is consistent with not only our data but our prediction that length is the only variable we tested that influences swing period. our data in figure 1 also aligns with this prediction. the power curve used to provide a model for our data provided the equation 2.08x^0.53. converting the theoretical model for pendulum swing into the ax^b format provides us the equation 2.01x^0.5.  both the constant and power in our measured model are within 10% of the theoretic model so this tells us it is a decent general model for pendulum swing. the equations we received from changes in mass and release angle to not follow a trend line closely enough to match to any theoretical models.

the greatest variance with our errors came from using a handheld stopwatch for time. this measurement system was vulnerable to fair spread with random human error. these were acceptable for determining large trends, however creating a model required more precise measurement. using an electronic measurement device provided enough certainty to create a model. even with a high precision measuring device, all measurements were subject to slight discrepancies in release conditions such a slight push or hold at the drop in some direction. many of these random errors could be mitigated by increasing the number of samples and using that average for a set of variables.

	a major item we could not accommodate for in our model was gravity. this is important because it is the only other changing variable in the theoretical model, however as a source of error it is highly improbable it would need to be controlled for. to generalize our results better, we would have to simulate changes in gravity and work that into our experimental model.