conclusion:
	During lab 5 and 6 our lab group conducted an experiment in order to test how the mass of a system is affected by hanging mass. Lab 5 was conducted on February 20, 2019 from 11 is 15 AM to 1 is 15 PM and lab 6 was conducted on February 27, 2019 from 11 is 15 AM to 1 is 15 PM. In both labs my group member that were there to help do the experiment were Mark Lohman, Ben Clough, and Andrew Broxterman. 
	For lab 5 we were testing how the force of the hanging mass would affect the acceleration of the entire system. Our dependent variable was the acceleration, the independent variable was the hanging force, and our control variable was keeping the mass of the system the same. The hypothesis we were testing was as the force of the hanging mass would increase it would cause the acceleration to also increase. Our prediction for what would happen is that the slope of the mass vs velocity graph (which gives acceleration) will decrease as the mass increases.
We then went to do another experiment which tested to see if the acceleration would change if we change the mass of the cart its self. 

For this graph we found out that there is a negative correlation between mass of the cart and its acceleration, which gave us the negative slope in the graph. (error bars are too small to be seen)
The theoretical equation we used w$a=\frac{F}{m}$ were a is acceleration, F is force, and m is the mass of the system, we used the equation to check if our acceleration was correct or not. The math mathematical model w$a=C w + C$ which was then given from the equation on our graph.
	During lab 6 our group was testing to see how friction was one of the hidden variables we could test in lab 5. We had to do 3 different tests to see how using magnets could create friction and slow the cart down. Our first trial we had one magnet, for test two we had two magnets, and for test 3 we had 3 magnets. For all three different test we were able to keep the research question, the dependent, independent, hypothesis, and predictions the same, the controlled variable would have to change depending on how many magnets were being used. The question we were testing was does friction affect the acceleration of a system? The dependent variable for all the tests was the acceleration of the cart, the independent variable was the hanging force. Our hypothesis was, as the friction force will increase it will cause the acceleration to slow down, it was the same for all three different tests. We predicted that for every test that the magnets will cause a greater friction making the system accelerate slower. For every test we had ten trials, one for every bobber we had, we would move one from the cart to the hanging mass so that the mass of the system would stay the same. After all 30 trials we were able to conclude that the magnets did affect the acceleration of the cart and that the less hanging force there was the slower the cart moved.
These are the graphs that we got from the data collected, it showed us that the acceleration went up when the force did, this show a positive correlation between the two. This lab was to see how other forces affected our results from the first time around, we found that our prediction was right and that friction did affect it.