discussion and conclusion

the research question was “what impacts the period of a pendulum?

the mass of a pendulum has no correlation with the period of a pendulum. although the period vs. mass graph from the lab 01 period displays a negative correlation between the mass and the period, the r^2 value of the graph is 0.7938 and there is a significant amount of uncertainty as shown by the error bars. this shows that the negative trendline doesn’t fit the data very well and that there is so much error in the data that the correlation is negligible. we can conclude that the mass of a pendulum, if under 200 grams (g), doesn’t impact the period of the pendulum.

the length of the string on a pendulum has a positive correlation with the period of a pendulum. although the period vs. length graph from the lab 01 period displays a trendline with an r^2 value of 0.6574 and shows a significant amount of error, the graph shows a positive correlation. the period vs. length experiment was conducted again in the lab 03 period and as seen in the period vs. length graph, the relationship between the length of the string on the pendulum and the period of the pendulum is represented by the equation   and the r^2 value of the graph is 0.9994, which means the trendline and equation fit the data points almost perfectly. the error bars aren’t visible in this graph, which means that the uncertainty in the data is negligible. based on the lab 03 data, we can conclude that the length of the string on a pendulum impacts the period of the pendulum.

the angle of release of a pendulum has no correlation with the period of a pendulum. although the period vs. angle graph from the lab 01 period displays a positive correlation between the angle of release and the period, there is a significant amount of uncertainty as shown by the error bars. this shows that there is so much error in the data that the correlation is negligible. we can conclude that the angle of release of a pendulum, if under 30 degrees, doesn’t impact the period of the pendulum.

the theoretical equation for the period of the pendulum is . one similarity between our experimental mathematical model relating the period of the pendulum and the length of the string on the pendulum, , and the theoretical model,  , is that the experimental term l0.4389 is almost equal to l0.5000, which is  as shown in the theoretical model. another similarity between our experimental mathematical model, , and the theoretical model,  , is that the experimental coefficient 2.0871 very close to the theoretical coefficient value , which is 2.0071.

some possible random errors include that we only graphed the average values for time as opposed to graphing every data point from testing five trials for each independent variable and that we timed each swing of the pendulum as opposed to averaging the time taken for multiple swings for the period. we could have reduced random error by running more trials, testing a wider range of values for each independent variable, having multiple people measure the time of the swings for each trial to make sure measured time is accurate, and letting the pendulum swing a certain number of times, stopping the timer, and dividing the time by number of swings to get the period for that data point. some possible systematic errors include that the cylindrical mass with the hook and the mass cylinders themselves could have had a little more or a little less mass than they’re supposed to and that the balance could have been uncalibrated. we could have reduced systematic error by calibrating or fixing the equipment.

since the parameters or constraints of the independent variables were that only angles less than 30 degrees and masses less than 200 g could be tested, we can only conclude that the mass of a pendulum, if under 200 grams (g), and the angle of release of a pendulum, if under 30 degrees, don’t impact the period of the pendulum. this affects the generalizability of the results since we can’t conclude that all values of mass of a pendulum and all values of angle of release of a pendulum don’t impact the period of a pendulum.