discussion and conclusion

the overall purpose of this experiment was to see what independent variables would impact the period of a pendulum.  the first independent variable from design table 1 was the length of the pendulum with the dependent as the effect on the period. we claimed that the period would have a positive correlation to the length of the pendulum or as one increases, so would the other. as you can see in the graph for experiment design table 1, the graph of the length vs. time graph shows a steady, positive correlation between the two. these claims would made valid under the conditions that the initial angle of the pendulum and the mass of the pendulum were held constant, as shown in the data table for experiment 1. 

the second independent variable chosen was the initial angle of the pendulum to see if it would affect the period of the pendulum. we claimed that the period of the pendulum would not be affected by the initial angle of the pendulum’s release. as the graph for experiment 2 shows, we can not conclude that the initial angle of the pendulum has a little to no correlation to the period of the pendulum. the claims are made valid from the conditions where both the length of the pendulum and the mass of the pendulum are held constant, which is shown in the data table for experiment 2.

 for the final independent variable tested, in experiment 3 the mass of the pendulum was altered to see the effects on the period of the pendulum. we claimed that the mass of the pendulum would not affect the period of the pendulum and is supported by the data in the graph for experiment 3 with mass on the x-axis and period on the y-axis. as shown, there is no concrete correlation between the mass and the period of the pendulum while keeping the length and initial angle of the pendulum held constant.

 as calculated and provided in the lab 03 record, our mathematical model to output theoretical period (in seconds) from a given length (in meters) is computed by is 

                                                               $t=2.012 l^{0.5179}$

this equation was created by the best fit line for the graph of the data where the length of the pendulum is tested while keeping the mass and the initial angle of the pendulum held constant. the best fit line with this equation correlating to the data of length vs. period of the pendulum showed to have an r^2 value of .9993 which signifies the period has a very strong, positive correlation towards the length of the pendulum. the other dependent variables were not used for this equation due to the mostly inexistence correlation between those variables and the period of the pendulum. the only input needed for this equation is l or the length of the pendulum. 

possible random errors that were faced were human error in time recording, sway in the pendulum, and inaccurate release of pendulum. possible systematic errors included inaccurate angle measurement in the protractor, inaccurate string measurements, imprecise period measurement due to possible air resistance, and asymmetrical swing. the following could be done to reduce random error is  reduce angle magnitude, use of an autonomous timer, use of systematic release of pendulum, multiple people to take measurements, and increase amount of trials and calculate mean. as for reducing systematic error, validating the measurements of the tools and verifying the tool is read correctly are ways to lower systematic error.

the only constraints in this experiment that would limit the generalizability of the results and the resulting equation would be not taking in account for the downward acceleration due to gravity and the density of the air into the equation. this equation only pertains to circumstances on earth whereas if you were to try to use this equation on the moon, both air density and acceleration due to gravity would differ. if it were needed that this equation was to be used in different atmospheres, we would have to also have gravitational acceleration and air density as inputs.