conclusion:

research question: what factors impact the period of a pendulum?

	in labs 01, 02, and 03, we tested what factors affect the period of the pendulum.  the independent variables that we tested were length of the string (cm), mass (g) hanging from the string, and angle of release (degrees) measured from the vertical.  control variables were kept the same so that in each test only the independent variable was changed.  there are two components that need to be true in order to assume correlation, linear correlation on a graph and no overlap with the error bars.  there is a positive correlation between length of the string and period of a pendulum due to the positive correlation on the graph of string length vs period and no overlap for the error bars.  there is no correlation for mass vs period of a pendulum due to the lack of correlation on the graph of mass vs period.  finally, there is no correlation between angle of release and period of pendulum because although there is positive correlation on the graph of angle vs period, the error bars overlap indicating that there is a possibility that the numbers repeat.  from this there is uncertainty in correlation so we cannot assume that there is correlation between angle of release and period length of a pendulum.  

the theoretical equation for the period of the pendulum is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$  and the mathematical model found from the lab data is $t =0.4036 l^{0.3489}$     the equations differ in the coefficient and power values.  the coefficient value found in our data was .4036 whereas the theoretical model is .2007, given that the gravitational constant is cm/s^2.  for the power value found from the mathematical model was .3489 whereas the in the theoretical model the coefficient came out to be .5, given the gravitational constant is cm/s^2.

there were random errors found in our experiments such as the difference in reaction times between the people using stopwatches to measure the time of a period.  other random errors could come from inconsistencies in things such as altering the angle measurement.  these random errors could be reduced by having a tool that would allow you to release the string from the same angle each time, a timer that automatically started when it is released and stopped when the string returns and ends the period.  

the main constraints that we dealt with in the three lab periods and throughout the experiments were time and the precision of our measuring tools.  for the time constraint we were given three lab periods, each two hours long, which restricted the amount of trials we could run.  with more trials we would’ve been able to better see whether there was a correlation between the independent and dependent variables.  as far as the measurement equipment, if there was something more precise than a measuring tape or handheld stopwatches then we could get more accurate data and a better understanding of the correlation.  based on our results from the three labs we learned that string length affects period length of a pendulum with a positive correlation.  in addition to the actual results, we learned important tools in experiments such as setting up and understanding the procedures in the experiments and how to properly analyze data.