discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of this lab was to develop mathematical models that are able to describe the behavior of a real system as well as to develop an understanding for each variable and value included in the model created.

	the first experiment tested how the mass of a vehicle would affect its acceleration if the force acting on said vehicle remained constant. the mathematical model that resulted from this experiment was an exponential graph with a negative correlation between the mass of the vehicle and its acceleration. however, this exponential model of exponent .937 is very close to a linear model (exponent 1) which it should be according to newtons second $a=\frac{f}{m}$. this law states that the acceleration of a system is negatively and linearly related to the systems mass, which our model comes very close to. the constant of 242 in front of the negative iv, x, represents the force in this system which was kept constant. the graph was derived by taking the line of best fit of the data plotted and has a very high r^2 value of .983. the resemblance to a line can also be seen in figure 1. the second experiment tested how altering the force acting on a system of a total constant mass could alter its acceleration. the mathematical model representing this experiment was a linear graph with a positive correlation between the force and the acceleration. this is exactly how the laws of physics tells it to be with newton’s law stating that $a=\frac{f}{m}$, a perfectly linear positive correlation. the constant in front of the x value, the force, is representative of the constant of mass that is a constant divisor in the law representing acceleration. there is also a y-intercept on this graph as this is not a perfect world and there is friction always acting on the system, reducing the force consistently. the way that we formulated this mathematical model was by entering the data into a computer and having it calculate the line of best fit. it also has an r^2 value of .998 which is pretty much as close as things can get to perfect in a human run experiment. the third experiment tested how the tilt on the system affected its acceleration. the three various models that were derived from this experiment had practically the same slope on their linear graphs (one differed likely due to error.) as the tilt is increasing, the y-intercept in the graphs becomes bigger. this shows that as the tilt increases the overall force acting increases as well, directly increasing the acceleration of the system. the y intercept represents the constant force that results from tilting the system/friction. the slope in front of the x value results from the newtonian equation $a=\frac{f}{m}$ where the slope is 1/mass of the system. that is why all three models have (or should have) the same slope as through all three different tilts the mass remains constant. these models were also derived from the lines of best fit of the data plotted like the other two experiments. their r^2 values are also high enough to the point where the models are as accurate as one would expect for a natural law that is newton’s second.
the first picture shows another group (group 1) that also tested for the forward tilt of the system and its effect on its acceleration. their data supports my claim above about the forward tilt increasing the total force acting on a system. like i said before the slope of the three models should be the same, or similar, and their data above supports that claim. also, their y-intercept increases as the tilt increases showing that the force that the tilt adds is a constant like previously claimed. the group on the right (group 5) tested for the backwards tilt of the system and its effect on its acceleration. their data proves my claim but in the opposite direction, the higher the backwards tilt the more that force is taken away from the system. this can be seen in the models because as the tilt increases, the y-intercept decreases. it also shows that in a system of backwards tilt, the slope also remains the same as the tilt varies. the data of the other groups supports the claims that i have made above.

	as with any experiment, there is a high potential for error that can only be reduced not eliminated. a potential error in this system is inconsistent friction on the vehicle. since the air track is not perfectly frictionless, the friction could increase as the weight of the cart increases, throwing off the mathematical models. there also may be some random error due to the release of the cart as the sway of the cart could have an impact on its overall acceleration down the track. there could also be a systematic error in the sensor itself that could throw the overall data off center. in order to reduce all of the random errors, it would be recommended to do multiple trials for each set of conditions in order to get as close to the true value as possible. in order to check the systematic errors, the only possible way to improve them is by repeating the experiment with different sensors or even testing the sensors individually with a method that is able to prove its accuracy. some constraints that could limit the generalizability of these results is that the amount of friction is not able to be consistently replicated from one scenario to another. another constraint is that it is near impossible to get these conditions in any given situation as there are way to many factors that could take place in a system that is outside of a lab. these factors could completely through off the models that we have created in this experiment.