discussion and conclusion:

the research question for this lab was how does the acceleration of a system change when the location of mass changes? the reasoning for these labs were to create mathematical models to represent the behavior of a real system. also, to develop a comprehension for each variable and number shown in each model.



in the first experiment in lab 05, weights (bobbers) were placed either on the cart or hanging mass. to test the research question of how the acceleration was impacted by the location of the weights, the bobbers were first all put on the cart initially. then, after each trial, one bobber was taken off the cart and added to the hanging mass that pulled the cart across the air track. velocity versus time graphs were then recorded on the lab computers for each trial. the slopes of the graphs were recorded (table 1) to find the acceleration which were used to compare with the forces and create a graph (table 2) which showed a positive correlation between the two. the constant of 4.69 in the trendline equation represents 1/ (m1 +m2) kg and the .0557 represents the angle of the track not being completely horizontal. 

in the second experiment of lab 05, the mass of the cart (m1) was altered while the hanging mass (m2) was held constant. this was tested to answer the research question of how the acceleration was impacted if the mass of m1 was just changed. as the group added weight to the mass of the cart, the recorded slopes from the velocity versus time graphs were put into a force versus acceleration graph (table 4). these graphs showed that the acceleration decreases as more weight was added to the cart which is true with the theoretical equation. by the trendline calculated, acceleration was equal to . the c3 (0.0882) represents m2(kg). 

in the experiment in lab 06, the same experiment as in the one in lab 05 was done to test the research question of how does the acceleration of a system change when the location of mass changes? however, to extend on the experiment of lab 05, the tilt of the track was altered either backwards or towards the hanging m2. our group was selected to test the backwards tilt. so, doing the same procedure as in lab 05, the more mass that was taken off the cart (m1) and added to the hanging mass (m2), the greater the acceleration calculated. this procedure was done for different heights of the backwards tilt. when the graphs of force versus acceleration were calculated, (tables 6,8,10,12,14) it was concluded that as the backwards tilt was increased, the acceleration of the cart decreased. i know this because the slope of the equation decreased as the height of the backwards tilt increased. the equations for acceleration in the lab 06 trials are the trendlines inside of the corresponding graphs (tables 6,8,10,12,14). the slope of the mathematical model trendline of each graph was the result of the inverse of m1 + m2. also, as the tilt was increased, the y-intercept of the model decreased.
the claim of group 6 was that when the tilt was with the cart (downward incline), the acceleration of the cart increased. their data adds to our understanding because due to their x-axis (m2 force) and their y-axis (acceleration), with greater force dragging down, the greater the acceleration of the cart. the acceleration of their cart was greater than ours however because we had an uphill tilt on our track. 

group 4 claim is when the retarding force is increased, the net force is decreased. their data and claims support that when there is a force that retards the force of the m2 force, the cart’s acceleration decreases. their tested iv had a larger impact on the values than our group.

factors that could affect the acceleration could be air resistance, some friction on the air track, and different string material. the air resistance could be tested by having a fan blowing against the cart as it runs.  friction would cause a systematic error because it would affect all the test the same way. to reduce the friction of the cart as much as possible, an air track attached to a pulley was used. we have to assume that the track is frictionless. friction on the track could be tested by changing the level of air blowing out of the track onto the cart. the string weight could cause a systematic error because it does weigh something, but the weight of cart and hanging mass were calculated without the addition of the weight of the string. this error could be reduced by having the exact same amount of string in each test as well as weighing the string to be calculated into the force. the string material could be tested by using different string types and testing the acceleration. a random error of this experiment would be how we selected the acceleration of the recorded velocity versus time graphs. the group would just select a random chunk of the graph line and use that selected line to find the slope. to reduce this error, the selection of the recorded line should somehow include the very bottom to the very top of the line to get the most accurate slope.

 to improve this experiment, we could use a more accurate weighing device.  as the mass of the system could be wrong when measuring using an analog scale. they could have an easier to measure or a set measurement for the height blocks.  the blocks were pretty difficult to measure and could not be the most accurate. allowing us to know these masses would allow us to improve the accuracy of our control variables. this would help make a more confident claim.  

in the scenario of a heavy string being connected to the hanging weight with the cart, there would have to be a procedure to weigh string, as it the weight will definitely affect the acceleration. the heavier the string, the more mass that is pulling down with m2, creating a greater acceleration on the cart.

comparing the model equations to $f=m a$

the first model equation was $a=4.69 f - 0.0057$  

the .469 is 1/m1+m2, the f is m2, and the -.0057 is the angle of the air track.

the second model equation was $a=\frac{0.0882}{m^{1.407}}$
the .0882 represents the mass of m2.
since $a = \frac{f}{m}$, when there was a greater mass (m1) having to be pulled, the acceleration decreased and vice versa.