conclusion:

in experiment number one, a research question that was asked was: what impacts the period of a pendulum? the factors vary as the role they play in this experiment including the dependent variable, period of the pendulum to complete the period, and independent variables which included length (m), mass (g), and angle (degrees). each experiment a independent variable was tested with two other variables as controls. this was done to view the effect of the tested independent variable on period of the pendulum. after the experiment was complete and the data was analyzed, it was concluded that the angle of release and the mass of the pendulum had very little impact and insufficient effect on the period of the pendulum. the length of the string was the only independent variable that affected the amount of time (seconds). from these conclusions, lab 03 was used to support these findings. the trials conducted were used to test the length independent variable to form more accurate conclusions (shown in table 7 and figure 4). a positive correlation; the longer the string, the longer the period and vice versa, is best to describe this relationship. figure 1 shows that the length of the string has a positive linear relationship with the period of the pendulum. the trials where mass and angle of release were independent variables, it demonstrated that both of these had little correlation with the period of the pendulum (shown in figure 2 & 3). the data points also deviated far from the line of best fit. based on these results from the experiment, it was determined that the only independent that had a impact was the length of the string. 



for lab 02, it was analyzed that the uncertainty of the experiment was to determine if there were any possible errors. random and systemic errors were both included in this experiment. random errors from lab 01 included fluctuations in start/stop time when performing each trial, inconsistent length of string, and inconsistent release angles for each trial. lab partners, before each trial should discuss when exactly to press start and stop and the angle should be measured before every swing. systemic errors within this experiment may include incorrect measurements of slotted weights by an uncalibrated scale, uncertainty with the measuring tape and slight differences with stop watches which could lead to variances in time. to minimize these systemic errors, it was important to calibrate all instruments and scales prior to measuring the weight and it is also important to check the efficiency of the watches used and to make sure the watches are the same kind. the results from experiment 1 and the considerations from experiment 2 were used to test the hypothesis of experiment 3. a mathematical model was created based on the results of this experiment. the period of the pendulum is affected by the length of the string, after analyzing each figure using error bars the only correlation was between length of the string vs. the period of the pendulum. in this experiment, the length of the string was the independent variable, the period was the dependent variable, and the mass (50g) and angle (20) were the control variables as shown in table 8. to test for more accurate results a photogate was used for more accurate results. based on the results seen in figure 5, the best fit line for the correlation of the length vs. period of the pendulum was power law, $y=1.9936 x^{0.4942}$ with the r^2 values of 0.9959. the theoretical mathematical model was $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ which corresponds to the length of 1.9936x^0.4942. from looking at the graph and data, the points line up accurately from the curve fitting and supports the conclusion the length of the string significantly affects the period of the pendulum. 

	there are some things to consider for the experiments. for example, the length of string was only so long and if it was longer, there may have been more trials done with larger differences between each length to see just how much length has an impact on the period. space is something to really take in account with this type of testing. longer the string may lead to a bigger difference in time which would give more confidence in the conclusions. other constraints may include air resistance, time availability and resource availability. if the were addressed some trials could have been accurate for better conclusions.