discussion: 

	the research question we were investigating in this lab was: what variable impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? the first variable that was tested to address this research question was the angle of release. the claim that was originally made was that the angle of release will impact the period of the pendulum. as the angle of release increases the period will also increase. the string length of the pendulum and the mass hanging off the pendulum were held constant. several trials were run, in which the angle of release (the independent variable) was changed. after 20 seconds, the number of periods were counted. after the experiment, our results in data table 1, showed that our claim was wrong. the angle of release does not impact the number of periods of the pendulum. the number of periods remained constant values averaging around 14. when these values were graphed we saw that figure 1a had a linear trendline. furthermore, when the error bar was put in using the standard deviation (shown in data table 4) of virtual stimulation in figure 1b, we saw that these bars overlapped. this proved that our values are most likely the same, therefore there is no relationship between the angle of release and the period of the pendulum. the next variable that was tested to address the research question was the mass hanging from the pendulum. our original claim stated that changing the mass will not have any impact on the period of the pendulum. the string length of the pendulum and the angle of release were held constant as the mass of hanging from the pendulum was changed. the number of periods were counted over 20 seconds for each of the different masses tested. the experimental results are shown in data table 2. our claim was proven right, because there was no variability in the number of periods. the values remained constant. these results were put into figure 2a, where we see a linear trendline. the trendline barely has a slope, because the values are so close together. furthermore, a graph with the error bars was also created shown figure 2b. the error bars were created by using the standard deviation of the virtual stimulation pendulum shown in data table 5. figure 2b showed that the error bars clearly overlap, meaning that the values are the same, and that there is no relationship between the mass hanging from the pendulum and the period of the pendulum. the last variable that was tested was the length of the string of the pendulum. our original claim was that the length of the string and the period are inversely proportionate, so the string length increases the number of periods decreases. we tested this by changing the lengths of the string throughout several trials and counting the number of periods in 20 seconds. the angle of release and the mass hanging from the pendulum was held constant. the experimental results are shown in data table 3. our claim was proven right because the results did show and inverse relationship between the two variables, as we increases the string length, the periods were also increasing. to see this better, we put the data results into a graph, this is shown in figure 3a. the figure shows a power trendline, in which we could see the variability of the values. the slope is not close to zero but it is a higher value. furthermore, we put error bars on the graph to analyze it even further. these error bars were made from the standard deviation obtained by a virtual stimulation of a pendulum, the results are shown in data table 6. the graph with the error bars is shown in figure 3b. the error bars do not overlap at any point of the graph, meaning that the values are more likely different from each other. 



	the theoretical mathematical model was determined to be $y=1.99 x^{0.5}$. according to figure 4, our experimental equation for the string length of the pendulum and the period of pendulum was determined to be $y=2.063 x^{0.412}$. this is very close to the theoretical value. similarly figure 3a also shows an equation for $y=56.197 x^{0.358}$. the 0.358 exponent is close but not too close to the theoretical value of 0.5. for the angle of release and the period graph shown in figure 1a, the theoretical mathematical model does not apply, because the trendline shown in the graph is linear, and not a power trendline, giving us an equation with $y=mx+b$. therefore this shows that there is no relationship between the angle of release and the period of the pendulum. the same can be said about the mass hanging from the pendulum and the period. the graph show in figure 2a, does not have a power trendline, but a linear one. the theoretical mathematical equation is in a power line equation rather than linear. therefore the equation cannot be applied to this variable, further proving that the mass handing from the pendulum and the period of the pendulum are not related. 

	there could be several random and systematic errors in this experiment. one random error that could have resulted is that we didn’t measure the angle of release properly. this error could have taken place in all three of the experiments we ran, since angle was involved in every one of them. to reduce this error, we could use a virtual pendulum stimulator, where the angles are clearly marked so there is no eyeballing the angle. or we could use a protractor that is more accurate in measuring angles than the basic one we used in the experiment. another random error we could have encountered was that the person monitoring the stopwatch, or the person counting the period may have miscounted the time or the period completed in 20 seconds. this error could be prevented by having several trials for the same variable. this way, the results are more precise, and the error can be reduced drastically. we could also switch people from the stopwatch to the counting the period to further reduce the error. one systematic error that could have taken place was the stopwatch was not working properly. this could have given us results that were off, but they would still be consistent. we can reduce this error by getting a different stopwatch, and comparing the values obtained by both of the stopwatch. this way we can find a uncertainty range. 

	one constraint in this experiment that may limit the generalizability of our results is air resistance. when the pendulum is swinging back and forth, air resistance is making it lose energy to the surrounding, thus slowing it down. another constraint could be friction, but to a lesser extent. friction could have acted where the pendulum string was attached to a stand. when the pendulum was swinging back and forth, friction could have slowed it down faster than it would if the stand was frictionless. this could alter our results when it comes to the periods.