conclusion:


the research question being investigated in this lab is: what impacts the period of a pendulum? each of these three experiments addresses the research question by identifying a possible variable that may affect the period and testing it by creating an appropriate apparatus and methodology. 

the first tested variable was length and our claim is that length and period are related. data for our claim may be seen in graph 1 and graph 4 as well as their corresponding data tables, 4 and 8. it is evident in our data that as length increases, so does the time of one period. when accounting for the error bars the claim holds true. this claim is valid so long as the angle does not exceed 90 degrees and the pendulum is within a gravitational field.

 the second tested variable was mass of bob and our claim is that mass and period are not related. data for our claim may be seen in graph 2 as well as the corresponding data table, table 5. there does not seem to be a relationship between the iv and dv. when accounting for error bars this claim holds true. its worth noting that two of our data points in this set of data are lower than the other three. this is because we added these data points in at the very end of the lab period to have more data points. these two points for mass 130g and 190g are an example of systematic error, they are both equidistantly below our other data. this claim is valid with in the constraints of the pendulum, if the mass became so large that it bent the apparatus then our claim may not hold true. also, if the angle of release became so large that the mass fell without the rope being taught, our claim may not hold true and similarly if there was no gravitational field to act on the pendulum.

the third test variable was angle of release and claim is that angle of release does not affect period. the data for this claim may be found in table 6 and graph 3.  there does not seem to be a relationship between angle of release and period. when considering error bars this claim still holds true. it is worth noting, like in the mass graph mention above, two data point were added later, and they are both off a little in comparison to the first three data points taken. our claim holds true within reason, the angle of release will not affect period so long as it does not become too large. also in order to work properly a gravitational field is needed.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum according to google is                                $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. my data is close to this. when using the trend line and r^2 values of the trials using a photogate (see table 8 and graph 4), one can see how close my data is. i developed an equation using the trendline function with the power curve selected. my equation is $y=0.09404 x$ or in terms of period and length (including units) $t=0.2351 l^{0.47}$.and my r^2 value is 0.9981, meaning the equations fits my data rather well because it is very close to 1. in practice the theoretical model predicts that the period of a pendulum with length $l=0.5$ meter is 1.419. my data shows that the measured period of a pendulum with length $l=0.5$ meters is 1.466. these numbers are very close; my percent error is 3%. 

errors present in this lab include systematic and random ones. random error present in my experimental process boils down to human error. the human error in releasing the bob cleanly, timing with a stopwatch, and reading the meter stick all increase the random error present in my data. systematic error in collecting my data may be attributed to scale error, for example if the photogate was not calibrated properly or if the meter stick had shrunk or expanded due to temperature and all of my measurements would be off by set amount. other sources off error include when we added data later. i mentioned this earlier in the report but in essence, we added two more variable masses and angles to test after conducting tests of 3 different masses and angles. these two additional points stick out of the data, see graphs 2 and 3. in the case of graph 2 i believe it introduced systematic error and in graph 3, random error. in effort to reduce error we measured carefully, let the pendulum swing 5+ times per timing, had multiple people time, and did our best to monitor control variables. to reduce theses sources of error further in the future, we should do all our data collection sequentially. 

constraints in this experiment that may limit the generalizability of my results include not being able to test air resistance and gravity. had i been able to test and control these things i likely would have been able to develop a better model. my results would only apply to pendulums in the same gravitational field. also, air resistance may have affected my constant value and made it less accurate to the theoretical model.