discussion and conclusion 

the purpose of this lab was to see what variables would affect the period of a pendulum for small swings. by conducting these three experiments, we were able to test three different variables that could have affected the period. we isolated those variables by keeping the others the same and conducted the tests and recorded the time it took the pendulum to complete one period. we predicted that only the length of the string would affect the period of the pendulum (figure 1.1). we also predicted that the mass and the angle would have no affect on the period, so we conducted those experiments to confirm or deny those predictions (figures 2.1, 3.1). after these experiments were complete we concluded that our predictions were correct, and the mass of the pendulum and the angle of release do not have any effect on the period of the pendulum. the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t =\frac{2 \pi}{\sqrt{g}}$ * sqrt(l).  our prediction works with this equation because as l, the length of the string, gets bigger, the period of the pendulum will get bigger as well. the length and the period have a directly proportional relationship (figure 1.2). since the other variables that were thought to affect the period are not in this equation, this means that they have no impact on the period of the pendulum.  there were many sources of error in this lab, most of them had to do with human error. this would include the human reaction time to press the stop button on the stopwatches. there could have also been error from not starting the pendulum at exactly the correct angle for every trial. this could have been avoided by creating a jig or some way to connect the protractor to the ring stand to ensure that we get the same angle for each trial. there could have also been sources of error in the rounding of the times from the stopwatch to the excel file. if we had a stopwatch that was more precise, and we did not round the values, then the results would have been more accurate in the end. the only major constraint in this lab was that we were not allowed to take data with the angle of release higher than 30 degrees. if we could have gone to a higher angle, we predict that the results of this lab would have changed. there were a few smaller constraints throughout, like the fact that we were only allowed to use the materials that were supplied to us. however smaller constraints should not have changed the results much overall. all these experiments proved that the only thing that affects the period of a pendulum is the length of the string.