discussion & conclusion

in this lab, we tested three different factors that we believe could potentially affect the time it takes to complete a single period, or a completed swing of a pendulum. those three factors included, mass, angle of release and string length. 

first, we tested changing mass. our group believed that this would be the least likely to affect the time it took to complete the period, but we tested our hypothesis to be certain. after several trials, we graphed our results and we saw no correlation between increasing the mass and the length of the period. our graph shows a relatively horizontal line which is consistent with our data. the small discrepancies within the data are most likely due to human error when using the stopwatch. therefore, we accepted our hypothesis that stated that mass would not affect the length of a period. next, we tested string length. this was the factor that we believed would have the biggest effect on the length of a period. we believed that there would be a positive correlation between string length and length of a period. by keeping mass and angle of release constant, we were able to see a clearly positive slope within our data. this proved our hypothesis correct that string length did determine length of a period. finally, we tested angle of release, the factor i was most unsure about. after deliberating, my group determined that it would not affect the length of a period. to carry out the experiment, we kept the string length at 70cm and the mass at .05kg. after graphing our data points, we saw a slight increase on the graph but determined that it wasn’t significantly positive because of the overlapping of points for different trials with different angles. we accepted our hypothesis stating that angle does not affect period length. 

to further test the factor that did have an effect on the period, string length, we ran our experiment again. the only difference was that instead of relying on a human to manually use a stop watch to record the time it takes to complete a period, we used a piece of equipment known as a photogate to more accurately read the time it takes to complete the period. the photogate had a range of uncertainty at 0.001 which was much more accurate than using a stopwatch. after taking this data, we graphed a trendline which happened to pass through all of our data points nearly perfectly. to further support our data, we computed our r^2 value which was 0.9997 which is extremely accurate considering the uncertainty of the photogate. our mathematical model further supported our claim in the first attempt to measure string length.

systematic errors were less common during this experiment because we did have access to correctly calibrated instruments and tools. as for random error, using the stopwatch likely brought in error because human reaction time is much slower than it is to drop the pendulum. this is likely to affect our results the most considering time was our dependent variable. also, human error could come into play when measuring angles and accidentally adding force when releasing the pendulum. if we had access to more precise instruments, it would reduce the amount of random errors in our experiments.

some constraints may have included being limited on time, space and resources. we could have conducted many more experiments to get more accurate results if we had more time to conduct each trial. also if we had more space we could have created a larger pendulum with more weight to see if the factors would affect the period on a larger scale.