discussion and conclusion: 

the general purpose of these labs was to develop mathematical models from controlled experiments which describe the behavior of a real system- we did this by testing whether the applied force or the mass of the system impacted its acceleration; as well as to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value included in the models- we did this by testing whether the incline angle impacted the acceleration of the system.

in the first experiment in lab 05, we tested for the impact the applied force has on the car’s acceleration- which is is    $a=0.0027 f - 0.0441$ with an r2 value of 0.9959. in the second experiment in lab 05, we tested for the impact mass has on the car’s acceleration- which is is   $a=0.3024 m - 1.12$ with an r2 value of 0.9954. in the first experiment in lab 06, we tested for the impact on the acceleration of the car due to the applied force when the track is at an incline of 0.25in – which is $a=0.0031 f - 0.2094$ with an r2 value of 0.9989. with the consistency of the r2 values all being extremely close to 1 in each of the mathematical models, the data that we collected and the equations we derived are accurate and we can have confidence that they correspond to newton’s second law. the mathematical models were taken from the slope of the combined collected data points that were then plotted in excel and calculated to be a direct result of our data. in all of our equations, it shows how acceleration is equal to net force on the system with the error subtracted at the end. which can be correlated with the equation for newton’s second law.
in the first photo of group 4, the group was trying to determine if the incline angle impacted the acceleration of the car. just like our group had discovered, as you increase the slope of the track, the slope of the calculated accelerations also increased. this can be proven by looking at the equations of the lines and the value at the end increases slightly with each increase of the angle in the track. their data concurs with ours in showing the equation for finding the acceleration of the system is impacted by the incline of the track, as well as the mass and the applied force on the system. in the second photo of group 1, they were trying to determine if the friction on the system impacted the acceleration of the car. as shown by their data in their three trials, as the force of friction applied increased, the acceleration of the car decreased therefore showing that friction does impact the acceleration of the car. all these results of these different tests all go into proving that the numbers in our equations relate to the equation of newton’s second law.

the errors in these labs could have come from many places. there is systematic error in the measurements of the weights of the bobs as well as the car. there is also systematic error in the program used to calculate the acceleration of the car. these could be reduced by taking multiple readings at each interval and averaging them together. there was also random error when selecting the line to determine the slopes of the acceleration, as well as when properly distributing the bobs along the sides of the cart as well as the string. these could also be fixed or remedied by taking averages of a lot of attempts when collecting the data.

some of the constraints that were placed on the experiment that might have hindered the generalizability of our data was the length of the string to attach the bobs to, as well as the maximum mass allowed for the total system at 340g. 

newton’s second law states that is  [ $f = m_{system} a$ ], which means that the acceleration of an object is directly proportional to the net force acting on it, and inversely proportional to its mass. its more commonly written as [ $a=\frac{f}{m}$ ]. when the equation is rewritten like it is here, it is easier to tell the correlation between the mathematical models we calculated and newton’s second law; where we have acceleration equal to a mathematical constant determined by the slope of the line, multiplied by the force acting upon the system with the estimated error subtracted from that value. and with all the r2 values all being close to 1 prove that these have a high level of confidence in them.