discussion and conclusion

	what independent variables affect the period of a pendulum? to provide a valid claim three labs addressed this research question. lab 01 started with thinking about what variables could change the period of a pendulum. the variables thought up included mass of the pendulum, length of the pendulum, and the angle at which the pendulum starts its period at. our lab group hypothesized that length of the pendulum would be directly proportional to the length of the period of the pendulum. to test this hypothesis, we performed three experiments inside the first lab. for each experiment one of the independent variables stated above was measured at different values while all other factors were kept as constant as possible. the graphs 1.1, 1.2, and 1.3 show the plots of these variables against the corresponding average period calculated in excel. to verify our hypothesis that length of a pendulum is directly proportional to the period of the pendulum, you can look at the graphs and see the only one that shows correlation is graph 1.1, length of pendulum vs. average period.

	lab 02 addressed sources of error and how to represent error graphically. the experiment had us apply error bars to our graphs as seen in graphs 1.1, 1.2, and 1.3. error bars helped validate our claim by showing the random error in data collection was not enough to disprove our claim. looking at graph 1.1 you can see that +/- one standard deviation yields error bars that do not overlap. this proves that our linear representation of the affect of the length of a pendulum on the period is valid. this experiment also had us take more data and we found that that if you average a larger number of periods the average time per period is more accurate.

	lab 03 negated random error caused by manual use a stopwatch by taking precise measurements of each period using a photogate. this device, being able to measure more precise, let us plot a lot more accurately and find a close relationship between data points that can provide a formula that can predict the time of a period given a mass. graph 3.1 represents the function found using our data. that function is very close to the real world formula for a pendulum.

	the mathematical model for the period of a pendulum we graphed is $y=0.1814 x^{0.522}$ which is very close to the real world mathematical model which is   $t =2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{x}{g}}$                the r^2 value of our graph is .9979 which shows our data points fit to the actual function very closely. to get the x coefficient of the real world model in centimeters we multiply 2 with pi and divide by the square root of 980 cm/s^2 which gives you .20071 in front of x^.5 which is very close to our coefficient of .1814 x^.5222 .  if you also compare our equation to that of other groups, you can see they are all similar. in general, our function for a pendulum is close enough to the real one it could be generally used the same. however, do to small systematic and random errors in our measurements, you would not get a completely accurate answer. you can find the equation on graph 3.1. graph 1.2 showing mass vs average period, and graph 1.3 angle of release vs. average period should have no slope but due to random errors associated with the stopwatch they have a slight parabolic shape. a slope of zero can be proven by looking at the error bars and seeing that they overlap in either graph 1.2 or 1.3. comparing these graphs to the graph 1.1 of length vs average period you can see that indeed there is a direct relation between length of the pendulum and the period of a pendulum.

	the most significant error during these labs was time until the manual method of a stopwatch which was causing random error was interchanged with a photogate. second, measuring the string to different points on the mass would cause a small error in possible calculations which is a systematic error from one length to another. three, an improved angle measurement system that does not rely on manual sight or someone to hold it where the location of a protractor could differ causing random error.