conclusion:

	while conducting the experiments we concluded that the only independent variable that causes the period of the pendulum to change is the length of the string. during the first experiment we tested the string length, the mass attached to the string, and the angle of release. looking at the results according to our graphs, as seen above (mass vs time, degrees vs time, string length vs time) the time does not change except in the string length graph. with experiment one ending in the conclusion that string length is the only variable that effects period of the pendulum. lab 2 consisted of identifying the causes of the errors within experiment one. we came to some conclusions including human error with timing, equipment error with the timers themselves, calculation errors, and a multitude of other factors that could affect the results of our experiment. using this information, we added error bars to the graphs in order to explain the variation of our values. the error bars were able to show the uncertainty and mistakes that could have been made while getting the results. lab 3 was able to eliminate some of the error by using a photogate to measure the period of the pendulum swing. in order to confirm our results that length changed the time of the pendulum swing we used the photogate while changing the length of the string used. by looking at the graphs of length of pendulum vs. time and string length vs time you can see that the graphs correlate well, proving that string length does in fact cause change in the period of the pendulum swing.

	during experiment thing we used the formula $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ to determine the experimental time period of the pendulum swing. our experimental model is $t = 2.1163 l^{0.4562}$ for our set of data. using a length of 0.5 m the experimental time for the pendulum swing is 1.41 seconds, when we did our test, we came to a time of 1.5 seconds, only a difference of 0.09 seconds. this number validates the data sets we have; the photo gate has an error of 0.01 seconds. we are very close to this error value, we can contribute the extra time to human error. the length of pendulum vs time graph shows the curve of fit, the mathematical model, and the data values from our experiment. the theoretical model does not consider mass nor angle of release and validates the claim that length of string is the only thing that matters.

	errors are unavoidable but they can be reduced as much as possible to get the best data possible. in this experiment we experienced human error in coordination between release time and stopwatch time, rounding errors, uneven measuring of length of string and several other calculations. we took precautions to try to eliminate errors to the best of our abilities. we allowed the string to run 5 swings and did that 5 times per independent variable. took the average of those times and divided by 5 to get one period. we also had multiple people taking times to get an average time. this allowed us to get the most accurate samples. 

	from these experiments we concluded that the only thing that effects the period of a pendulum is the length of the string. although we have good data, we could have gotten better had we had better measuring tools and time for more trials we could have gotten better data. human error is something that is unavoidable but will also cause error in our results.