discussion: 

does the mass of the pendulum impact the period?



based on the data obtained, the pendulum period increases as the mass increases. however, when compared to data from the whole class the pendulum period does not changes as the mass increases. the mass seems to impact the period because when the mass is 70 grams, the period at the 95% confidences level has a range of uncertainty from 0.96 seconds to 1.12 seconds, while when the mass is 150 grams, the period at the 95% confidence level has a range of uncertainty from 1.14 seconds to 1.34 seconds. when the mass increases by 80 grams, the period is longer. however, when compared to class data and compared to smaller increases in mass (70 g to 90 g), the period is the same (0.96 s-1.12 s to 1.01 s to 1.17 s, respectively). 

does angle of release impact the period of pendulum?

does the angle of release impact the period of a pendulum?



based on the data obtained, the pendulum period does not change at angles 70 degrees of less, but the period increases after an angle of release 80 degrees. however, when compared to data from the whole class the pendulum period was found to not change at angles less than 20 degrees, but the period did increase after an angle of 20 degrees or greater. based on the data obtained, the angle of release does not impact the period when the angle of release is less than 80 degrees because at the 95% confidence level, the range of uncertainty overlap with each other at measured periods for 40 degrees, 50 degrees, 60 degrees, and 70 degrees. the overlap can be seen visually by the error bars represented on the graph above (change in angle of release). although these error bars on the graph are only at the 68% confidence level, they are still overlapping with each other indicating that the period is the same. however, at 80 degrees, the period at the 95% confidence level has a range of uncertainty from 1.44 seconds to 1.60 seconds. even compared to the period of the 70 degrees, which has the longest measured period (aside from the 80 degree period) has a range of uncertainty from 1.13 seconds to 1.29 seconds. this demonstrates that the period at the angle of release of 80 degrees is larger than the period at an angle of release less than 80 degrees. however, when compared to class data, angles greater than 20 degrees would have an affect on the period. the data obtained from this experiment however did not include values less than 40 degrees, so this statement cannot be confirmed by this specific experiment. 



random error could have been reduced in this experiment by obtaining more trials for each condition along with finding the period for a larger range of masses, angle of releases, and string length. adding more trials for each condition helps the observed mean become closer to the true mean thereby reducing random error. additionally, small ranges of masses, angles of releases and string length were used in these experiments. small ranges makes it harder to see relationship between variables and more difficult to make claims about the relationship. the mathematical model would likely have been a much more representative of the true relationship between string length and period if a larger range of string lengths had been used in the experiment. 
 time was a constraint during these experiments, it was hard to run enough trials over a large enough range of conditions in 2 hours. more trials and a larger range of conditions would have reduced random error throughout the experiments. other constraints of the experiment is that the way gravity impacts the period of the pendulum was not able to be tested in the lab. gravity has been proven by physicists to have an affect on the period of the pendulum, but with the lab provided, this is not a possible area of exploration. testing the affect of gravity would have a provided a more accurate mathematical model for the period of the pendulum.