discussion 

so how does the variables of strength length, mass of weight, and angle of release impact the period of a pendulum? we found that three possible variables can be easily measured that could impact the period, which are string length, mass of an attached weight and the angle of release. 

for string length, we were using a tape measurer, a stopwatch or a sensor connected to an automatic stopwatch, we took a small variable of string lengths, (see figure 1), to begin with ranging roughly from 10 to 30 centimeters and the period ranging between .52-1.00 seconds, and then a much larger range, (see figure 2), of roughly 19 to 143 centimeters after we found out only string length statistically impacted the period. for the controls, the mass of the weight was 50 grams, the angle of release was 25 and 15 degrees respectively, and we worked in an environment with -9.8m/ss acceleration due to gravity. for the first test, there was some overlap of the data when considering error, but for the second test using more accurate timing method, and a known standard deviation of .001seconds, the error bars had no overlap and were even too small to see. from the second run, were able to come up with a theoretical model of $y=0.8873007 x$.

the second variable we worked with was the mass of a weight attached to the end of the string. we used a pre-weighted weight of 50 grams in which additional 10 gram weights could be added. for this experiment, our controls were a string length of 30.1 centimeters, an angle of release of 25 degrees, and an environment with -9.8m/ss acceleration due to gravity. as shown in figure 3, our weight ranged from 50 to 130 grams and our period ranged from .86 – 1.35 seconds. it should also be noted that when the error is included in consideration, that there is significant overlap. 

the third variable was angle of release, we used an angle finder to measure our angle of release ranging from 5 to 30 degrees from the center of the string at rest and our period measured between .75 to .95 seconds, with no clear relationship. our constants were the string length, 30.1 centimeters, mass of weight, 50 grams, and the acceleration due to gravity, -9.8m/s2. graphing the data, we found significant overlap between the points when factoring in standard deviation.

conclusion 

both times for string length, there was a correlation between the two, but it took the second set of data to really prove that string length indeed impact the period statistically significantly. the first attempt was not as clear due to some overlap when considering the error bars, leaving some uncertainty on the second set of data, we compared our model to other groups, and found out that ours matched very closely to theirs, their models being $y=2.1105x^{.4206}$ and $y=2.0395x^{0.318}$, supporting that our model is very close to the actual one.  

for mass and angle of release both had the same conclusion based off the graphs, that there was no statistically significant correlation between them and the period, due to the heavy overlap of error bars, this; however, is due to in part the random error from using the stopwatches, and systematic errors like the weights being slightly off from what they said they were. the impact of these errors could have been reduced by using the automatic sensor for all the period measurements and using a scientific scale for all our weights, which would have reduced the random error significantly and the systematic error from the mass of the weight and having to read its mass from a balance scale. 

for future experiments, some factors that could be improved on would be a much larger data set, especially for the mass and angle experiments. this is due to low data sized, random and systematic errors have a much larger impacts than in large data sets. another improvement would be to use digital, scientific scales instead of balance scales, which would not only save time, but also reduce random error from misreading the mass, and possibly systematic error if the weights on the scale have worn down over the years.