discussion and conclusion:



in labs 4, 5 , and 6, we looked at estimating the error of the distance a projectile travel going a set velocity using kinematic equations , we also looked at the research questions of how does the acceleration of a system change when decline angle, force, and mass change? 



	in lab 05, the experiment with the hanging weight or where we kept the mass of the system constant and only changed the force applied to the system, addressed the research question as we were able to determine the effect of force on the acceleration of the system and create a model for the relationship between force and acceleration. by graphing the acceleration at each interval of changing force that was determined in out experimental design template, we were able to create a graph that gave us an equation for the relationship between the force and acceleration of our system, having an r value of 0.997. the error bars in this graph were made using the error of 0.001 provided as the error of the rotary sensor’s estimated scale error of 0.001 m/s^2, which are too small to see in the graph. the equation created was $y=2.86 x - 0.17$. this is the equation shows that as the force is increased, the acceleration is increased. the constant at the beginning of the equation was  2.86, which when we soled for $f=m a$ to $a =\frac{f}{m}$, was 1/mass. as our mass was 0.34kg , 1/0.34 which is  2.94, which is very close to our constant of 2.86.  as shown in the data, an increase in force increased the acceleration. since force is directly correlated with acceleration, if force were to decrease, then so too would acceleration. mass is inversely correlated with acceleration, so an increase in mass would decrease acceleration. a decrease in mass would cause an increase in acceleration. the results from group 2 supported our results as they had an equation of $y = 2.7117 x$, having a similar constant and same inverse relationship of mass to acceleration in their equation as ours, supporting our model. group 1 also had a model of $y = 2.6359 x +0.04012$, again with a similar coefficient and displaying the same relationships between force and acceleration and mass and acceleration , supporting our model. 

the enhanced model for force and acceleration with more than one force of  $f = m a$ is also supported, as our equation yielded $y=2.86 x - 0.17$, and in lab 06 where we changed the angle of decline for the lab set up, effectively changing the force of gravity’s effect on the horizontal motion of the system, our model did not significantly change the 2.86 coefficient, however the initial acceleration of – 0.17 did change to -0.0209, showing we were changing the initial acceleration and therefore force in the system, meaning the x in out equation dies include the summation of the force on the system, here including the force of gravity and the force of the hanging weight. 



if there were to be a heavy string on the cart and pullet, the overall acceleration of the system would be decreased, as our equation of $y=2.86 x - 0.17$ translate to $a = \frac{f}{m} + a_i$ , meaning i you increase the mass of the system the acceleration will decrease. 



random errors could have stemmed in lab 04 from the release height of the projectile, the friction being inconsistent the track, inconsistent air resistance, as well as any loose parts of the projectile ramp could have induced random error. these were reduced by completing several trials. in lab 05, random errors could have stemmed from inconstancies in the stopping of the cart in the track, possible friction from the bobs attached to the cart, inconsistencies in the air that was levitating the cart, as well as any human error involved with the computation. there errors were reduced by using a computer software to determine the changing in velocity over time, as well as completing many trials of different forces, and using two trials at each mass and force and taking an average to further reduce error. in lab 06, error could have been included from all of rhea same sources in lab 05, as well as any discrepancies in the angle of the blocks used to elevate the track, along with any movement of our set up caused by other teams running their experiments. these errors were also reduced by completing multiple trials and using the computer software. 



our labs were constrained to only account for small changes in mass, not account for air resistance, assuming no friction on the air levitated track, only conducting a limited number of trials, and using a track of only 1 meter in length. these effect our results as we do not know if our coefficients could be a result of any other factors other than mass, and the ai of -0.17 in our initial equation may be off slightly from the true initial acceleration. our models may only be held true when there is no friction of air resistance, and mass or force are held constant. this makes our results slightly less generalizable.