Discussion & Conclusion:
 For lab 05, the purpose of this lab was to create the mathematical models of the impact of the two different types of independent variables which are the mass of the cart and the quantity of the bobbers attached to the string on the acceleration of the system. For lab 06, the purpose of that lab was to be able to interpret the variables and the numerical values that was produced from the mathematical models based on the experiment which involved placing the magnets on the cart and to find out its effect on the acceleration of the system. 
 The experiments from the lab 05 testing the effect of the amount of the bobbers on the acceleration of the system produced the mathematical model of $y=1.301 - 0.0012 x$ as seen in Figure 1. The slope would be written as (–0.0012 m/s2/g)x and the y-intercept would be written as 1.3013 m/s2. Also, from lab 05, the experiment testing the effect of the mass of the cart on the acceleration of the system produced the mathematical model of $y=0.0282 x$ as seen in Figure 2. The slope would be written as (0.0282 m/s2/g)x and the y-intercept would be written as 0.0006 m/s2. The mathematic model of the first experiment in Table 1 says that the acceleration decreased by 0.0012 m/s2 for every increase in the amount of the bobbers attached at the end of the string. For the experiment in Table 2 for testing the mass of the cart on the acceleration of the system, its mathematical model says that the acceleration increased by 0.0282 m/s2 for every increase in the mass of the cart. The experiment from lab 06 seen in Figure 3 testing the effect of the magnets placed on the cart on the acceleration produced the mathematical model of $y=166.95 - 83.151 x$. This model says that for every increase in the mass added which in this case are the magnets, there would a decrease in its acceleration. 
       
 The errors in the experiment that may have seen would the systematic ones. The bobbers and the magnets had to be weighed on the balance so that we would know their masses and put that into the equations. A systematic error could arise there so in order to reduce that error, we would have to make sure that the balance is calibrated to zero.
 In this experiment, there are constraints that limit the generalizability of the results obtained such as the amount of time that we have to do the experiments, the type of the bobbers used, only using the air track to perform the experiments, and using the program on the computer to collect our data.
 The two mathematical models from the experiments are consistent with the Newton’s Second Law since the change in either the acceleration or the mass of the object would impact how much force gets exerted. 
