discussion and conclusion:

	the original question proposed was “what influences the period of a pendulum. for this question we came up with three variables that we thought possibly could affect the period of the pendulum. the first of the three variables tested being length, this was trials 1 through 3 on the chart and the data was plotted on the “length v period” graph. for this part of the experiment we recorded the period at three different lengths 50 cm, 100 cm, and 143 cm and kept the angle and mass constant at 30 degrees and 50 grams. what we found was that there was a positive correlation between the independent and dependent variables and length of the string did in fact impact the period of the pendulum. which would prove our predictions to be correct that there was a positive correlation with the length of the string.

	next variable we tested was the angle in degrees we dropped the pendulum. this was trials 4 through 6 and for this we changed the angle from which we dropped the pendulum to see if there was a positive correlation. the three angles chosen were at 10 degrees, 20 degrees, and 30 degrees. to keep our numbers accurate, we kept the two other variables constant, the string length was kept at 50 centimeters and the mass was kept at 50 grams. when we got our results for the angle portion of the experiment, we found that there was no positive or negative correlation between the period and the angle at which the pendulum was dropped as seen in the “angle v period” graph above. this again proved that our prediction was correct seeing that the angle had no effect on the period of the pendulum.

	the third and final variable tested was the mass of the pendulum vs the period. for trials 7 through 9 we tested three different masses to see if there was a negative or a positive correlation at 50 grams, 90 grams, and 150 grams. the other two variables again were kept constant at 50 centimeters and 30 degrees for the angle dropped. as seen in the “mass v period” graph above once again we found that our prediction was correct and that the mass had no positive or negative effect on the period of the pendulum. in fact, what we witnessed in that graph was a tiny parabola that formed. 

	in the end we found that all of our predictions were correct, and length of the string was the only variable we tested that impacted the period of the pendulum and showed a positive correlation between the variables tested. the other two variables neither had a positive nor negative correlation in regard to the period of the string. this was also shown by the mathematical model given to us by our textbook $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ which backed our experiment up and showed that length was the only variable that impacted and showed a positive correlation in the periods.

	most data collection  experiments will have some error in the actual collections phase whether it be clicking the stop button on the stop watch a second too soon or too late or some other factors that involve human error these are the random errors and to decrease the amount of random errors that occurred in the experiment we took multiple measurements and even had two people timing and averaged out those to measurements. this in theory should have greatly reduced the amount of random error that went on while the experiment was being run. this however couldn’t get rid of all the error in the experiment, to reduce what is called systematic error we were given stop gates in the next lab period that when the pendulum passes through them it accurately counts the period in which it takes for the pendulum to passes through the sensor twice thus, eliminating systematic error.

	when thinking about the restraints we had during this experiment more random error could have occurred with the following. first everyone was given but, there’s no telling what condition everyone’s equipment was in. the quality of each groups string could have played a key role in measuring the periods. another variable was the restraint we had on the angles, we were told not to go above 30 degrees and maybe having more large angles could have made a difference in the periods we tested.