discussion and conclusion (mass):

	based on our experiment with mass as the independent variable and period as the dependent variable, we found that there is no relationship between the mass of the pendulum and the period of the pendulum. we kept the string length and starting angle constant for each trial. based on our erratic data, large fluctuations, and the graph showing little to no relationship, there is no correlation between mass and period. the error bars also proved that there was a large variability in the reported measurements. therefore, mass does not impact the period of a pendulum.

	discussion and conclusion (angle of release) is 

	based on our experiment with the starting angle as the independent variable and period as the dependent variable, we found there is a relationship based starting angle and the period of the pendulum. the data obtained through our trials and graphed data showed a negative linear relationship. we kept string length and the mass constant for each trial. based on these factors, we can determine there is a negative correlation between starting angle and period. the error bars for this experimental data were small compared to the mass bars and in general, thus we can determine there is low variability in the data. therefore, the angle of release does impact the period of a pendulum based on our data obtained throughout the experiment. 

	discussion and conclusion (string length) is 

	based on our experiment with the string length as the independent variable and period as the dependent variable, we found there is a relationship based on the string length and the period of a pendulum. the data obtained through our trials and our graphed data showed a positive linear relationship. we kept the mass and starting angle constant for the duration of this experiment. the error bars for this experimental data was also small compared to the mass error bars and in general. based on these factors, we can determine that there is positive correlation between string length and period. therefore, the string length impacts the period of a pendulum. 

	our equation is  period $t=0.0135 l + 0.6284$

	theoretical equation is  period $t=0.0122$

	based on the equation we calculated via excel and the data we received through various trials, we can determine that the mathematical model does support the theoretical model because it is the constants (.0122 and .8223) are very close in size to the constants we calculated with our data (.0135 and .6284). 


	in all three trials, there were fluctuations in data that could have been affected for a multitude of reasons. systematic errors that may have altered the data in the trial include friction caused by air resistance which may potentially change the period measured, and the tension of the string which we could not measure, may also cause a fluctuation in period results. additionally, the stopwatch may have been damaged or faulty which would cause substantial error throughout every trial of the experiment. random error that may have altered the data in the trial include the starting angle not the same for every string length trial and mass trial and the whiteboard setup may have been setup faulty which could potentially cause error in the experiment since we used it for an outline our starting angle measurement. additionally, there may have been human error with the stopwatch timing of the experiment which can cause error throughout every trial of the experiment. however, this was eliminated when we used an electronic stopwatch for further trials on the string length experiment. systematic errors can be eliminated or reduced by solving the issue at its core. in our experiment, we would adjust the scale so it’s one-hundred percent accurate, using an electronic stopwatch or fixing the regular stopwatch, and measuring the air resistance for every trial. random errors can be reduced by refining the measurement technique or by repeating the measurements for more trial and taking the average.

	there are a wide variety of constraints that are applicable to our experiment. for example, the largest length of string we could use for the pendulum experiment was 175 centimeters. therefore, our mathematical model and findings are only generalizable to pendulum lengths up to 175 centimeters. additionally, the maximum mass we could use was 150 grams. therefore, our findings for mass are only generalizable for pendulum experiments with mass up to 150 grams. furthermore, angle was limited to the measurements on the protractor we used.