discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of this lab was to develop mathematical models which describe the behavior of a real system (lab 05) as well as to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value included in the model (lab 06)
experiment 1 tested the acceleration of a cart after a force was applied. experiment 2 tested the acceleration of a cart after the mass of the cart changed for each trial, keeping the force applied constant. experiment 3 was similar to experiment 2, but the mass of the cart was different (366 g for the first 8 trials and 450g for the last 8 trials). the mathematical model of experiments 1 and 3 were found by using excel. excel showed a linear relationship, seen in graph’s 1, 3, and 4, which can be described by is  “as the force applied increases, the acceleration increases as well.” the mathematical model of experiment 2 was also gathered from excel but was described by a negative exponential function. this can be seen in graph 2 and can be explained by is  “as the mass of the cart increased, the acceleration decreased at a smaller rate after each trial.” in mathematical model (1), the numerical value multiplied by x can be represented by how much the function increases after a force of 1 is applied. the other numerical value in that model can be represented by the magnitude of the acceleration of the force applied was 0. in mathematical model (2), the value multiplied by x can be represented by the amount the acceleration would decrease if the force applied was equal to 1 or more. the other numerical value in mathematical model (2) is represented by the acceleration if the orce applied was equal to 0. 

the data gathered by group 3 allows me to understand that the acceleration is directly proportional to the mass applied. in our experiment, it was reversed, when the mass applied is increased, so it the acceleration. the same understanding can be derived from group 4’s presentation. 

									
the errors that may be present are systematic errors and random errors. the systematic errors can be seen where the acceleration data gathered may be smaller or larger than the actual acceleration. this may be since the scale we used to measure the mass of the bobbers was inaccurate. some random errors could be seen because the bobbers may have been slightly swinging during each test, resulting in slightly inaccurate accelerations. uneven distribution of the masses of the bobbers also point to the same random error. in order to prevent these possibilities, a more accurate scale and a more efficient way of distributing the mass of the bobbers may decrease both systematic and random errors.

some constraints in this experiment include the mass of the bobbers, the number of bobbers provided, and the distance the cart can travel. 

newtons second law states that $f=m a$. any of the figures provided above, we can see that the force applied(mass) multiplied by the acceleration equals the force. this can be proven by the values in figure 7 found in the first row. the force applied is 5, the acceleration is about 0.01. 5*0.01 which is 0.05, which is the force (fourth column). this data was used to make a mathematical model, which is very similar to mathematical model (1).