discussion and conclusion:

research question: what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?

how each experiment addressed the research question –

the experiment for the angle of drop addressed the research question because in that experiment, we kept the mass and the string length the same, only changing the angle we dropped it from.  therefore, we were able to see whether or not the drop angle affects the period of a pendulum.  one problem with our drop angles that may have skewed us away from the research question was that we used some angles that may have been too large and may not have given us accurate results.  we made the claim that the drop angle does not affect the period of a pendulum, because our graph turned out to be almost constant (figure 1).  the graph is not perfectly constant, but we believe the larger angles we used in some tests are the cause of this.  

the experiment for mass of the pendulum addressed the research question because we kept string length and drop angle as control variables while only changing the pendulum’s mass.  therefore, our data was able to show us if the pendulum’s mass had any affect on its period.  our claim for pendulum mass is that it has no affect on the period.  we came to this conclusion based on the graph of mass vs. period (figure 2) which shows to be constant.  our group was pleased with how the graph looked because we predicted that mass would not affect the period.  just like the experiment of angle vs. period, the validation of our claim lies in our graph.

the experiment for the length of the string addressed the research question due to our group only changing the string length while keeping the pendulum’s mass and the drop angle as control variables.  we made the claim that the string length is the only thing that affects the period of a pendulum, which was validated by the exponential nature of the graph that we procured in lab 03 (figure 3).  this type of correlation showed us that the period is greatly affected by the length of the string, and as the string length is increased, the period increases along with it.  

the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$.  our data does not lead us to the desired equation, as the equations on the figures show.  our group was confused by this, as our graphs (figures 1-3) show exactly the types of correlations we expected to see.  figures 1 and 2 show a constant nature between angle and mass, respectively; this is what we predicted these experiments would show.  the iv we predicted that would show a positive correlation (string length) did exactly what we predicted it would when it comes to the plot of data (figure 3).  however, the equations do not match up with the desired equation despite the plotted points being accurate.  thus, our model and the theoretical model do not align.  

there were most likely random errors when it came to the drop of the pendulum, especially for the experiments of angle vs. period.  for these drops, we used angles that may have been too large which caused “jumps” in the string which may have slowed it down.  to compensate for these jumps, i may have guided the string for too long after dropping it, possibly speeding it up.  this random error could have happened during other tests, because we often kept the angle as a control variable at 45 degrees.  thus, the error was most likely random because the pendulum was slowed down during some tests and sped up during others.  to reduce this error, we tried to make the drops as smooth as possible by minimizing contact with the pendulum after the drop and by being extra careful as to not raise the pendulum during the drops which would cause a jump.  one possible systematic error (that i previously stated most likely was not relevant or noticeable) may have been that the weights have lost mass over time due to overuse.  this error, if it was applicable, would have been systematic because it would have been “one-sided.”  the weights’ true values would have been below the values listed on them.  a random error of inaccurate stopwatch timings most likely took place during labs 01-02.  we took the average of 3 stopwatch timings for each period we measured, some of which were most likely started or stopped too early or late.  thus, the values of the periods that we recorded were affected by timings that were often larger than the true value and some that were smaller than the true value.  this makes the error a two-sided error.  we did not have a way of reducing this during the first two labs other than taking a mean value from three stopwatch timings.  for lab 03, we were able to use a photogate which greatly reduced this error.  the error of the photogate was only .001 seconds; we cannot say our stopwatch timings were this accurate or that our standard deviation was that small.  the angle we dropped the pendulum from most likely had random error associated with it, as the method of using a protractor and eye-balling the value may have resulted in angles slightly smaller or larger than the desired degree value.  to minimize this error, we dropped the pendulum as quick as possible after measuring the angle as to reduce the amount of time there was where the dropper may enlarge or reduce the angle.  this error would have been a two-sided error (random).

one constraint in this experiment involved the amount of weight we were able to use.  if we had a larger pendulum to use and more weights to load it with, we would be able to gather a larger range of data.  also, the length of the string constrained us, as there was a limit to how high we could go in the classroom.  a larger structure to hold the string in a larger room may have given us a larger data set to observe.  another constraint was the small angles we had to use.  if we had a way of dropping the pendulum from a larger angle without it jumping, a larger data set may have been procured.  therefore, these constraints may have limited the generalizability of our results because the spread of our ivs had to be within a relatively small limit.