discussion:

research question: what factors affect the period time of a pendulum?

 

conclusion:

based on the experiment, and the gathered data, the factors that impact the period time are the string length, and the release angle. as the string length increased, so did the period time, under constant weight and release angle. this can be seen on the graph with a constant positive slope. as the release angle decreased, so did the period time, under constant string length and weight. this can be seen on the graph by a positive slope. whereas the attached weight did not have an effect on the period. this can be seen by the neutral slope on the graph. $t=2 \pi$.5 is the mathematical formula for the period of a pendulum. this supports our results that the length of the string does affect the period of the pendulum in a direct relationship. however, it does not support our result that the drop angle affects the period of a pendulum. if the experiment was to be replicated, we believe that they would observe the same results since the results are based off of the natural laws of physics, therefore any difference from these laws are due to human error. we tried to reduce the error by using multiple timers, and afterwards taking the average period between the timers for each trial. the conclusion was reached by analyzing the graphs and observing the trends in the data, revealing the correlations described in the claims previously made. there was an clear positive relationship shown in the rate of change of both the string length and release angle graphs. are confidence is high in our interpretation of the data, since the r squared values found in the graphs are higher than 95% in both cases. other potential factors that could affect the period could be the air resistance, and  also the force of gravity. air resistance could be tested by using a vacuum chamber, and gravity can be tested by traveling to a separate planet. we could also improve it by reducing the friction of the string. we could also repeat the experiment for each different variable more times in order to reduce the amount of random human error. this human error includes the timing of the pendulum as well as inconsistencies in the dropping of the pendulum. a constraint that may reduce the generalizability of our results is the time limit as it prevented us from doing a substantial amount of trials which could be used in order to eliminate all of the random error that results from humans being imperfect.