conclusion and results:

the research question in this experiment was: what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? additionally, what is the mathematical model of the period of a pendulum was also being asked.

each experiment addressed the research question by testing a unique variable to determine if it impacts the period of the pendulum. within the first experiment, it can be seen in figure and table 1 that as the pendulum length increases, the period length also increases even within the margin of error. this directly shows that the pendulum length has an impact on the period, addressing the research question with the given data. our group had made the claim that the pendulum length would impact the period length, and we had been correct. to conduct this experiment, the only variable changed was the pendulum length; the mass (90 g), and angle of release (20°) remained constant. the second experiment displayed results that were accurate to our claim of no impact between mass and period length. figure 2 shows that there is no correlation between them, and each point falls within the margin of error. table 2 also points evidence to a lack of impact. these results show that the mass does not impact the period of the pendulum, directing back to the research question. this experiment changed only mass while keeping the length (38.5 cm) and angle of release (20°) constant. the third experiment also showed no impact in the period length due to a changing angle of release. looking at figure 3, we can see that the trend is weak and there is no correlation between the data that falls within error. we had made the claim that there would be no impact with a changing angle, and table 3 concludes that. so, the angle of release does not affect the length of the period as asked by the research question. in the third experiment, the mass (90 g) and the length of the pendulum (38.5 cm) remained constant while the angle of release was changed to see the effect on the period.

the theoretical mathematical model of this lab is is  $t=\frac{2 \pi l^{0.5}}{\sqrt{g}}$. our model has 2.0082 in front of it. the theoretical model has a calculated value of 2.007 attached to it. there is a difference of 0.001 between our experimental mathematical model and the theoretical model. the difference most likely lies within the square root of gravity in the equation. as seen in figure 4, our graph represents a power model and displays the r^2 value as well as our equation (all done using excel features). this graph with its trendline differs from the other two variables that we determine did not affect period length and matches the original figure 1’s trend. this is accurate to the theoretical model, as it only has string length being an impacting variable on period length.

various improvements can be made to the lab that will improve the lab. there are certain aspects of the movement of the pendulum that were not taken into consideration that could have negatively manipulated the length of the period. if the pendulum was released by a machine that stopped sway and controlled the angle of release, the accuracy of each period’s measurement would be increased. additionally, another aspect of the lab that could be improved is the methods for measuring certain parts. for instance, the pendulum was measured by eye and someone timing via a stopwatch. this could have led to multiple incorrect times due to human error. a camera that records the position of the pendulum could take photos to indicate the stopping point of the pendulum in its swing, allowing a more precise and accurate time measurement. the type of string may contribute to a portion of random error that can influence the period of the pendulum. measurement error of the length of the pendulum could randomly affect the period since the length could be greater or smaller. overall, our system of trials worked well; however, there is an opportunity to conduct a greater amount of trials per experiment to improve consistency between data.

some other possible constraints might be the air resistance and the shape of the weight. in order to find if the air resistance impacts the period of a pendulum, the experiment must be performed in a vacuum. in order to determine if the shape of the weight affects the period of a pendulum, the experiment must include different shapes of the weight, while all the other variables must remain constant. additionally, the type of string, angle of released that would give a controlled swing, and the aerodynamics of the pendulum were other constraints that could possibly change in different conditions. these constraints may have impacted the general results of the lab.