discussion & conclusion

the experiments for lab 01, 02, and 03 focused on the impact of different variables on the period of a pendulum. the research question being investigated through these experiments was ‘what impacts the period of a pendulum?’. each experiment throughout these past three weeks focused on three variables, mass of the bob, angle of release, and length of the string, and their impact on the period of a pendulum. originally, we thought each variable would have some sort of impact on the period of the pendulum. we predicted that as these three variables increased in mass, angle of release, or length of string, then the period of the pendulum would increase indicating a positive correlation between the variables and the period. in each experiment, when one of the variables was changed, the other two remained constant. looking at the graphs, figure one indicates the mass of the bob versus the period. in this case, the mass of the bob changed while the length of the string and the angle of release remained constant. this graph did not indicate a positive correlation between mass and period, meaning that the mass of the bob does not impact the period of the pendulum. figure two portrays the angle of release versus the period, keeping the mass and string length constant. again in this case, the graph does not indicate a positive correlation meaning that the angle of release does not impact the period of the pendulum. finally, figure three portrays the length of the string versus the period, keeping the mass and angle of release constant. in this case, there is a positive correlation between string length and period, indicated by the positively-sloped line of best fit and lack of overlap between the error bars. this means that string length does impact the period of the pendulum in that as string length increases, the period of the pendulum increases as well. 

	lab 03 further investigated the impact of these three variables on the period of the pendulum by introducing the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum. the equation for the theoretical mathematical model is 2x0.4232. string length being the only variable to have a significant effect on the period of a pendulum provided a graph with an equation 1.949x0.3416. plugging in the same value for x in both the theoretical mathematical equation and this provided equation gives very similar answers, indicating that this equation will provide values significantly accurate/close to what would come from the theoretical mathematical equation. this information also confirms that string length does have a direct impact on the period of the pendulum. if we were to do the same with mass and angle of release, the equations would not correlate with the theoretical mathematical equation because these variables do not have an effect on the period of the pendulum. 

	throughout these different experiments, both systematic and random error occurred. systematic errors encountered include the balance/scale not being calibrated and not giving an accurate mass reading and the photogate not working properly and giving inaccurate times for the period. random errors encountered include misreading/misestimating the value between tick marks on the ruler or protractor or holding the protractor at slightly different angles each trial. ways to reduce systematic error such as these would include calibrating the scale in order for it to give accurate readings and making sure that the photogate is working properly before collecting data. ways to reduce random error such as these would include improving measuring techniques/methods or by performing multiple trials to gather as many measurements as possible and then taking the average of these measurements. 

	in order to maximize generalizability of this experiment, as many trials as possible with a large population size is necessary. constraints in this particular experiment that may have limited the generalizability of these results include not having enough space to collect data of extremely large string lengths or large angles. without these drastic measurements, it is harder to compare and see the impacts, or lack thereof, of the variables.