discussion and conclusion

what impacts the period of a pendulum?

	experiment one addressed the research question by testing if the mass of the bob affected the period of the pendulum.  this was done by taking sample periods using differing masses but keeping all other variables constant.  we claimed that the period of the pendulum would not change due to mass, and the results of the experiment validated this claim by showing almost no variance in the period of the pendulum as seen in graph 1.  experiment two addresses whether changing the angle of release would affect the period of the pendulum.  graph 2 shows that there is no conclusive evidence that the angle of release affects the period of the pendulum due to the error calculated into the graph.  this was just as we had predicted.  for experiment three testing if the length of the string would affect the period of the pendulum, the data in graphs 3 and 4 both support the claim that as the length of the string was increased the period of the pendulum would also increase.  these results stand true on earth under normal gravity.

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is as follows is  $t=2$√(l/g).  as we can see this equation is a power function just like graph 4.  this further justifies the claim that the length of the string affects the period of the pendulum.  all other graphs showed linear relationships with the period of the pendulum which does not agree with the theoretical mathematical equation for the period of the pendulum.  it can also be seen from the equation that the period is only affected by l, the length of the string, and g, gravity.  

	some of the error encountered could be due to human error, but this can be more classified as systematic error, where the tools which were used to take measurements in the first round of testing had a high variability and room for errors with the stopwatch and compass.  another systematic error could be that we did not time just a single period, but ten periods and then averaged them out for each measurement.  this systematic error would have increased the length of the period.  this was corrected in the final take when a photo gate was used to measure the period rather than the stopwatch, which allowed us to measure the first period and take that measurement as accurate down to 0.001 seconds.

	the only variable that could not be tested to see its affects on the period of a pendulum.  without this data we can not use the data collected to generalize if our claims hold true under all conditions.