conclusion:
 “What impacts the period of a pendulum?” was the research question. We performed three versions of this experiment, testing three different independent variables (mass of weight, length of string, and angle of swing) leaving our dependent variable (time period) the same throughout all experimentation. In our first run of the experiment we determined there to be no correlation between the mass of the weight and the time it took for the pendulum to swing (Figure 1.1). We determined that the angle of the string had a negative correlation to the time it took the pendulum to swing because as the angle increased, time of the swing seemed to decrease (Figure 1.2). We also determined a positive correlation between the length of the string and the time of a pendulum because as the length of the string increased, there was an increase of the time it took for the pendulum to complete the swings, causing a positive slope (Figure 1.3). 


	In this lab we used our previous data to guide us. In this experiment, we used a pendulum simulator to gather some more data to help us determine our standard deviation of error in our data points. Some of the errors we decided that could have affected our data were not stopping the watch at the exact moment the pendulum had completed the swing or starting the watch before the pendulum has been released or too late after it has been released. We also determined, specifically in the length of string vs. time experiment, that we may have wanted to double check the accuracy of our measurements as that could have had an effect on our error. 
	We decided that we could reduce errors by making more precise measurements and having more than one team member double check to be sure that we are all measuring the same. We could also limit the timing to just the one stopwatch so that there would be less confusion and all the data would line up more accurately because we are keeping everything constant.



	In this lab, we decided to remove the option of the angle of the swing vs. the time of the swing because we decided that there was not enough specific correlation, or enough data to determine this as so. We focused specifically on the length of the string vs. the time of the pendulum swing because this seemed to have the clearest and most definite correlation.
	In this experiment, we used the Photogate recorder to keep track of the time it took for the pendulum to complete each swing. 	
	We decided from our R value, since it was 0.99, being very close to 1, that there is a polynomial relationship between the period and the length of the string. We had previously thought that it was simply a linear relationship, prior to determining the specific R values of the different relationships.
