discussion and conclusion

the purpose for lab 05 was to view how adding mass to certain parts of the system affect the acceleration. adding mass to the cart on the track created friction and created a slower acceleration. adding mass to the end of the string connected to the cart increased the acceleration. in lab 06 we studied how tilt affected the acceleration. having a downward tilt and adding weight created a larger acceleration and having an upward tilt and adding weight created the slowest acceleration.

in lab 05 our mathematical models were taken from the equations of our lines. when adding weight onto the end of the string connected to the cart we noticed the acceleration increased every time so this helped lead us to knowing that our equation of the line was correct. when adding mass onto the cart we noticed the acceleration decreased every time so this helped reassure us that our equation of the line was correct. in lab 06 our mathematical model was once again found by taking the equation of the line. we expected the graphs to all have an increasing acceleration as we were adding weight onto the end of the string. after seeing the graphs of each test our assumption was correct. since we had five different tests each test created a different equation, but the slopes were all around the same value, which can be seen in the graph taken from lab 06, with the only noticeable change being the y intercept of the equation. to get a general equation for lab 06 we found $a = c1 + c2$, where c1 is equal to the normal force exerted on the object and c2 is equal to the tilt of the track.

in picture 1 group 6 shared a similar claim to ours in that creating a downward tilt increased the acceleration of the system and creating an upward tilt caused a slower acceleration. picture 2 represents the claims and mathematical models made from testing how adding magnetic friction affects acceleration. as expected, creating a larger amount of friction caused the acceleration to decrease. having less magnetic friction caused the acceleration to increase. 

the air track cannot be frictionless, so the tests all have a small amount of friction with them. this would be a random error caused by the air track. the only way to remove this is by having a lab that creates a totally frictionless area and the test can be ran with friction being removed all together. the only other place there could be error is in measuring the acceleration by the program. we think it was extremely accurate so that little to no error was created.

i think the only constraint would be not having enough time to test more data and get better results. testing more would create more accurate data and get us closer to the actual values. 

using our models since it taken from a line, if you solve for the value you are looking for, your answer should be similar if not exact to the data found in the table or on the graph. this would prove newton’s second law.