discussion and conclusion:

the question researched was what impacts the period of a pendulum? three experiments were conducted in order to answer this question. 

the first experiment addressed the research question by manipulating the independent variable to see how it effected the time it took the pendulum to complete one period. the first variable was mass. various trials were conducted where mass was added to and removed from the pendulum. the pendulum was then released and the time it took for it to complete a period was recorded. based on the results, a change in mass did not affect the time it took a pendulum to complete a period. this can be observed and concluded from looking at the figure 1 because despite errors, the line is straight, as the rate of change is constant. the next variable changed was the length of the string. the data showed that when the length is manipulated, the time it takes for the pendulum to complete a period changes as well. the results show that as the length of the pendulum increases, the time it takes to complete one period increases as well. figure 2 depicts this as the graph increases at a constant, positive rate.  lastly, the angle at which the pendulum was released was changed. in doing this, it was concluded that the angle the pendulum is released from makes an exponential rate. when the angle increased, the time it took for the pendulum to complete one period also increased.

in the second experiment, the possible errors of the first experiment were identified and adjusted for in experiment 2. possible errors were identified to be random error in angle of release and in measuring the time. as well as systematic errors with the equipment’s mass. the standard deviation of our data was found to be .061, where about 68% of the data gathered lied outside of the mean. the evidence gathered from this experiment shows the correlation between the length of the string increasing and the pendulum speed increasing. 

	in the third experiment, the two trials of independent variables that probably had the most error were redone. these were the angle and length trials. in this experiment, a computerized aid was utilized to take time measurements. this increased the accuracy because it removed the random error that may occur when a human took time. it was found that there was a negative linear relationship between angle and time and a positive linear relationship between length and time. 

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is period is equal to 2 times pi times the square root of the length divided by the acceleration of gravity. this equation shows the relationship between the independent and dependent variables utilized in the experiment in a mathematical way. when the length(l) increases in the equation, the period of swing (t) increases as well. as found in the experiments, mass does not effect the motion of a pendulum however, what does is the acceleration of gravity as seen in the mathematical model.  

errors that were present include the random errors of the angle release as well as measuring the time. also, a systematic error that may have occurred is with the equipment because it did not have a mass of exactly 20g. in order to reduce these errors, many trials were taken and the data that was compiled was the average of the trials. also, by utilizing computerized aid, errors were able to be reduced. constraints in this experiment included time. each experiment took time to take multiple trials and with the limited time given in lab, that was something that constrained the experiments.