discussion and conclusion:

research question:



	for this experiment, we are asking the question what factors affect the length of a period for a pendulum to swing back and forth. in this specific experiment we constructed, we are testing if mass, length of string, or angle of release will affect the period of time it takes the pendulum to swing back and forth once.


as shown in the graphs, the mass does not have an effect on the period length. the error bars all fall within two standard deviations with each other providing a 90% confidence level that mass and period length are not correlated. this result makes sense because when looking at the equation for a falling object and its speed, the mass is not factored into the equation at all which leads one to believe that mass does not matter when it comes to the speed of a pendulum. 
	as shown in the graphs, the length of the string does have an effect on the period length. the error bars show that the pendulum swung faster the smaller the string was outside of the two standard deviations, which had minimal overlap. this provides a 90% confidence level that the length of the string and the period for time are correlated. this makes sense because looking at the equation for the speed of a falling object, the initial position (assuming that where the string is vertical and will not let the mass of the pendulum go down vertically anymore) is factored into the equation and it becomes greater and greater as the string is smaller and smaller. 
	as shown in the graphs, the angle of release of the string does not have an effect on the period length. the error bars show that the pendulum did not change the length period as a result of changing the angle of release, (within two standard deviations). this provides a confidence level of 90% that the angle of release and the period length are not related. this makes sense because though the angle of release does affect the initial position of the pendulum before release, the angle of release is compensated for by the speed difference it causes which results in no net effect on the period length. 
the theoretical equation we came up with is is  $y=2022 x^{0.503}$. this equation was derived from taking the data points of an experiment testing the length of the string vs the period length, and finding a line that fits them. the curve fit came out to be r2 is 0.9999 which shows the results are very accurate. 
	random errors that we may encounter could be a fault in measuring tools be worn or stretched out, the release of the pendulum may not have the same initial velocity of zero every time, there may also be an error in timers stopping exactly when the period stops. these could be eliminated by using newer, more reliable tools, using a mechanical device that will consistently drop the pendulum string at the same initial velocity every single test, and using a recording instrument that will precisely and consistently stop the timer exactly when the pendulum passes through it.

	systematic errors that we may encounter could be air friction and friction on the string’s attachment. these errors are not so easily remedied. to minimize air pressure, the only reliable way to do the experiment would be in a vacuum. there is no exact way to minimize the friction on the string’s attachment, so the best thing would be to use a very low friction material to attach the string and to only have the string go through one period with exact measurements so that the friction error is not compounded upon for more and more iterations during one reading. 

	major constraints on the experiment would be friction due to air and the attachment of the string (both listed under systematic error as well). the constraints make it so the length of period a bit longer than they would be in ideal conditions. this, however, does not derail the project’s object because the objective of the project is to find out what factors have a major effect on the period length. these factors are more relative to each other than they are relative to the exact time it takes the pendulum to swing for a period.