conclusion:

	the research question being invested in this lab is what can affect the period of a pendulum? each of the three experiments address the research question, which can be represented by the tables and the graphs. it was able to be seen how the mass, angle of release, and length of string can affect the time of a period to be completed. it was predicted for all three experiments that as the mass, release angle, and string length increased, the time of the period to be completed would also increase. 

	for the mass versus time of period experiment, the mass was decreased by twenty each trial. for each trial, the time of the period to be completed was measured using a stopwatch. as seen in table and figure 1, the time of the period to be completed did not increase or decrease as the mass changed. this does not support the prediction made, that the time of the period to be completed would change with the mass. for the release angle versus time of period experiment, the release angle was increased by ten degrees for each trial and the time of the period to be completed was measured using a stopwatch. as seen in table and figure 2, the time of the period did indeed increase as the angle of release also increased. this would support our prediction made, that they would both increase with each other. finally, for the string length versus time of period experiment, the string length was increased by 10 for each trial, and the time of the period to be completed was measured using a stopwatch. as seen in table and figure 3, the time of the period to be completed increased as length of the string increased. this supports our prediction, that the two variables would be directly related to one another.

	the mathematical model was determined using excel, which an equation for the factors that affected the period of the pendulum to have a positive correlation. differences in the values for the angle release and string length would be due to these factors affecting the period of the pendulum. the equation was calculated with the trendline model. the mass did not have a positive correlation though, it had more of a constant correlation. there could be some inaccurate values due to random human error. the values taken from this experiment were done using a stopwatch, which can result in the group members taking the time measurements at different times from pressing the start and stop button at different times. error can be improved by taking more trials to get more accurate results for the time.

	another factor that can affect the period of a pendulum slightly by wavering our results is air resistance. although this could be a very small affect, it is important to consider all of the factors. overall, it was a very successful experiment and our results can support what should have happened in the experiment. if the experiment were to be redone to gain more accurate results, more trials could be done and possibly finding a better way to collect the time measurements.