discussion and conclusion:


the research questions for experiments 1, 2, and 3, respectively, are: does the mass of m1 affect the acceleration of the system?, does the mass of m2 affect the acceleration of the system?, and does the downward force on the cart affect the acceleration? 

experiment 1 addresses the research question by adding mass to m1 and measuring the acceleration of the system using the wheel device labeled in figure 7. there is a strong positive correlation shown in the graph of acceleration versus mass, as shown in fig. 2 , and in the raw data, fig. 1. based on this data, there is strong evidence for our claim that the mass of m1 affects the acceleration of the system.

experiment 2 addresses the research question by adding mass to m2 and measuring the acceleration of the system. there is a strong negative correlation shown in the graph of acceleration versus mass, as shown in fig. 3, and in the raw data, fig. 4. based on this data, we claim that the mass of m2 affects the acceleration of the system.

experiment 3 addresses the research question by experimenting with the downward force generated by magnets atop m2. we ran a control run with all 4 of the magnets on m2 and exerting negligible force downward. we then changed two magnets at a time (to maintain longitudinal symmetry and stability) to exert a force down and measured that acceleration. the data in fig. 5 and fig. 6 show a clear negative correlation between the number of magnets pulling down and the acceleration of the system. this supports our claim that more force down decreases the acceleration of the system.

we are group number 1 on this chart. as you can see, in the second column, all of the equations had positive correlations, even though the number change depending on there particular experiment setups.

the enhanced theoretical equation is that the acceleration of the system is equal to the sum of all of the force acting on the system divided by the mass of the system. written as $a=\frac{f}{m}$
our experimental mathematical model is acceleration is equal to .0272 times the mass of m1 in grams added to the constant .0268. this supports the mathematical model because it shows that the acceleration of the system increases as m1 increases. the only force on the system is the force provided by gravity on m1. since gravity is an acceleration, force would increase if m1 increases, and that is shown to be true.
the equation for this scenario would have to include how the force increases as the string goes over the measurement device. therefore, i would go with the equation $a = \frac{m1 g+ m2 g}{m_{sys}}$ .
random errors include the measurement error in the device and systematic errors include friction on the wheel and air friction. these could be reduced by conducting the experiment in a vacuum, using higher-quality devices, and wheels with less friction.
the constraints for this experiment is that the results are only valid if you use the same air track we did in this experiment and that you use the same measurement device as we did in this experiment. these affect the generalizability of the results because for real world applications, trying to find a frictionless surface is super hard, so the equation we gave will probably be optimistic without that friction added in.