conclusion and discussion

the objective of this lab was to analyze the effects of specific factors on the acceleration of a system. it was hypothesized that increasing the applied force would cause acceleration to increase as well and increasing the mass of the cart or friction would cause acceleration to decrease.
the first part of this hypothesis was tested by adding more weight to a hanging mass during each trial. $f=m a$ therefore increasing the mass increases force. there is a direct positive correlation as seen in figure 2. there is high confidence in this conclusion because the trend line passes directly through each data point, with error bars too small to be seen. the second experiment run during the first of the two labs looked at the change in acceleration when the mass of the cart increased. the results are shown in figure 3. the plot shows a negative correlation. this means that our hypothesis was correct. as the mass of the cart increased, the acceleration decreased. 
lastly, we tested how friction affected acceleration. trials were run in which the hanging mass was steadily increased for a system with a 0cm, 0.318cm, and 0.952 lift under the cart. the lifts were placed under the cart in order to increase the friction, a non-conservative force. figures 4, 5, and 6 depict the accelerations for each experiment. there is a positive correlation with the same slope in figures 5 and 6. the main difference between these graphs is that the trend line was lower in figure 6. this means that although the systems were increasing acceleration at the same pace, the trials with the higher lift had more friction and its initial velocity was slower. these results confirm our hypothesis was correct, again with high confidence because our error bars are so small and the line of best fit goes through each data point with one exception. there is expected error in the trials with the 0cm lift. it was expected to have the same slope as figures 5 and 6, but it is steeper. this could be due to the cart not fitting the track well. it’s also possible that the air was not distributed evenly under the cart. if this experiment were to be performed again, it could be improved by finding a cart that fits the track better. this is the only systematic error that our experiment seems to contain. 
in the mathematical model, $a = c1 f + c2$, a is represented by acceleration. the c values in this case represent hanging mass, and in the lab set up we tested how the hanging mass would affect the acceleration, with the presence of friction. our group’s mathematical model matched the theoretical model, as did most other groups. this made us even more confident in our findings. when comparing our results to a group that had a different hypothesis as us, we saw a difference in their results. they hypothesized that a higher tilt would result in a smaller acceleration, which does not go along with what our group and other groups had found. they have strong r2 values, but one would expect a higher acceleration with a higher tilt, considering the cart would have a steeper incline to accelerate on.