conclusion:
What are the factors that affect the period of a pendulum? This question was answered by testing each variable multiple times and determining whether it had an affect based on close inspection of the plotted points. The length of the string shows to be the only factor that significantly changed the period of the pendulum. Since the best fit line in a positive curve and the error bars do not overlap, the length of the string is proven to affect the period of a pendulum. The mass on the end of the string can be determined as not affecting the period of the pendulum due to overlapping error bars and a random error with heavier masses shaking the system. The angle was shown to have an affect on the period but only at large angles. Small angles did not show any affect on the period of a pendulum and made an almost horizontal line. This also makes the error bars equivalent furthering the aforementioned statement. The theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is     $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{L}{g}}$      , g being the acceleration due to gravity and L being the length of the string. This equation also proves that length is the only significant factor that affects the period of the pendulum since neither mass nor the angle are shown in the equation. Our experimental equation, determined from the line of best fit, $y=0.12152 x$ is very similar to the theoretical equation if it was simplified. The random errors that posed a threat to the collection of data were, the instability of the system due to swinging, the rope straying from its original path and the mass twisting when unbalanced. These errors could have skewed our data slightly and changed the out come of the final curve. These could all be prevented by reducing the mass on the string. The systematic error that we encountered was the stopwatch lagging slightly when stopped. We first reduced this by taking multiple measurements for the same trial and then secondly, used a photogate to capture the times more accurately. The constraints of the experiment included the tools for measurement and the human eye. If the same lab was conducted with hyper-accurate measuring devices, a stable apparatus and a camera, the experimental equation would be drastically closer to the theoretical equation. Regardless of the constraints, the similarity between the two equations was noticeable and able to be calculated.




