discussion and conclusion



after performing this experiment we now have a function and test results to conclude the results of our research question, “what affects the period of a pendulum”. the mass cannot be conclusively accepted as having any effect on the period of a pendulum due to the error bars. in addition the formula given 2pi square root l/g does not indicate mass as having any effect on the period. next, the experiment and graphs of length vs the average period indicate that the length does have an impact on the pendulum's period. even with our groups hand timed results the error bars would still indicate this to be true. once the values were tested electronically they were conclusive. as the length of the string increased the time it took to perform one period increased. the third independent variable tested was whether the angle it was launched from affected the period. from our results we found that it did affect it. the greater the angle the longer the period likely due to the increased distance that it has to travel in an arch. our results found that the most left part of our graph and the most right part of our graph had error bars that did not intersect. this lets us be confident in our results except for potential random error from us launching the pendulum at 15.1 vs 15.0. overall the graph does show that the angle will affect how long it will take to perform a period. in the lab we learned afterwards there is a formula 2pi square root l/g that can calculate how long the period will take. many different groups had similar results to us and we had a similar result to the theoretical formula. the difference in the six groups that performed this experiment in our class with photogate were due to small random errors that hardly affected the overall experiment. this was indicated from the fact that all other groups were within an acceptable range of the formula. the equation that our group came up with from testing the experiment was $t=2.0305 l^{0.4905}$. this was very close to the actual equation and the reason we are slightly off is due to random errors. these could have been prevented in a variety of ways such as finding a way to perfectly get an exact angle or length of the string. as we might be too short or long for one trial, then the next time we might get it near perfect. in order to eliminate random errors i think there would need to be a machine to hold the angle in place and to have precise measuring capabilities. some constraints in this experiment are time and our method of measuring angles and length. better equipment could help solve the constraints as the string might not be perfectly straight or a minimal bump or offset weight could affect it in a miniscule way. these might get closer to the overall theoretical value after performing such a large number of experiments, but by finding the average of an experiment the way we did could get you extremely close to the theoretical value.