conclusion

	the question this lab investigated was what variables effected the period length of the pendulum as well as what mathematical model represented the period length. the first experiment aimed to identify which variables effected the period length. the first claim was that the mass of the pendulum was a factor in period length. this is valid. chart 1 shows all data being within the error bar of each other. this shows that it is reasonable to believe that the period length does not change based on the mass. the second claim was that the initial angle affects the period length. this is not true. much like the mass each point on chart 2 was within 1 error bar of each other. this means that it is reasonable to conclude that initial angle does not affect the period length. the third claim was that the length of the pendulum affects the period length. this claim is true. each point on chart 3 was outside of the other error bars and there was a strong positive correlation between length of pendulum and period length. from this we can conclude that pendulum length is a factor in period length. the second experiment was designed for us to find the variance in the data for the first experiment. we found that the standard deviation was .034 seconds. this enabled us to draw strong conclusions in the first experiment. the last experiment allowed us to calculate a mathematical model for the period length. because mass and angle were found to not affect the period length, they did not need to be part of the equation. this enabled us to use chart 4 and take a power regression of it to approximate the equation for period length. the equation was found to be $t = 0.202 l^{0.499}$. where l is length in centimeters and t is time in seconds. this equation had a r2 value of 1 meaning that it is a very strongly represents our data. our model compares very well to the real equation which is, according “simple pendulum”, $t = 2 l^{0.5}$ for meters which can be converted to $t = 0.2 l^{0.5}$ for centimeters. there are errors which are present in the experimentation that can explain the deviation from the equation. in the first experiment a random error present was stopwatch starting and stopping. to reduce this there was multiple swings per trial. in experiment 3 this was even further reduced by using a photogate, with an accuracy of .001 seconds, for measuring period length. another source of random error was measuring the length of the pendulum. this could be reduced by using a digital measuring device, precut string lengths, or additional trials. a systematic error present was air resistance. since air resistance is a constant force based on surface area, we cut down this factor by increasing the mass of the pendulum. this could be further decreased by decreasing the surface area or by repeating the experiment in a vacuum. there are multiple constraints preventing the generalizability of the results. firstly, this was done with a gravitational acceleration of 9.8m/s2. if this were done on a planet with a different gravitational acceleration this model would not hold true. second, under extreme angles the pendulum does not behave ideally preventing the model from being used.
