conclusion:
 the goal for this lab was to understand which variables would affect the period of a pendulum. 

	throughout this lab we became pretty confident with our conclusion as it was backed up with three different experimental results. throughout the first experiment we determined that since only the graph of the length vs time had an actual slope then that would be the only variable that affects the dv of time. in the second experiment we made error bars on our graph to help decipher if our original claim was true. in which we saw that since our error bars were overlapping for the weight and angle graphs that they must not be changing therefore the weight and angle does not affect the period of a pendulum. within the third experiment we created a mathematical model for which the graph of length vs time became a power curve to show the relationship between increasing length and time. 

	the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is is  $y=2.0 x^{0.5}$. our experimental model is pretty close but a little bit off from the theoretical equation. our coefficient for the model was 2.0378 which is just a bit off from the theoretical coefficient of 2.0. an experimental model is always going to a bit off from the theoretical model because theoretical is always in perfect conditions whereas an experimental model is going to have some errors like not dropping it from the same place every time, or not measuring the string perfectly. these slight errors in our experiment is what accounts for these subtle differences. we are very confident in the mathematical model provided by excel because we were able to use the data from the photogate which had a standard deviation of 0.001. our power curve passes through the set data point that the excel sheet provided for us. the equation that excel generated was $y=2.0378 x^{0.5012}$. the r2 value that excel provided was 0.9989. this r value represents that because of our calculations and data collected, we have a positive correlation between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum. the r value, in a perfect world, would be 1. a r^2 value of 1 would mean that there was a perfect correlation between the x and y values. in our case, we were fairly close to 1, but not perfect, most likely because of our common, human error. the factors of angle and weight were considered but the mathematical models were not created as they showed no linear trend except for being a horizontal line with barely any deviations. 

	the systematic errors or “one-sided errors” in this experiment could be to put marks on the string so that when measuring with the tape measure, the starting and ending points to be measured on the string would be uniform throughout. repeating measurements more than one time could also reduce these errors. the random errors or “two-sided” errors in this particular experiment could be to use multiple stopwatches and taking the average of all of the times. the best way to get rid of any random and/or systematic error would be to have this experiment done with robots instead of humans. as a robot would be able to perform the exact same action multiple times with accuracy and precision while humans are restricted by human error. 

	since we have concluded that neither the change in weight or angle actually affect the time frame then we would focus on the length of the string. we were restricted to a certain length of string as we had used up all the resources at our disposal. so if there was a way to have a longer string we could see how the increased length would have on time. if there was a way to be even more accurate when measuring the length of the string such as going to 3 or maybe 4 significant digits then it might make the mathematical model slightly better. another way of improving the lab would be to run more tests at different lengths. by doing possibly 20 tests instead of 10 would better increase the line of best fit for our graph. as the more data that we put into the graph then the better spread of results we would get. thus, reducing any random error that might be in our chart.