discussion and conclusion:

in this lab we investigated the effects of mass, string length, and angle of release on a pendulum’s period.

when we tested the legnth of the string, we took 5 different tests, each at dirrerent lengths. for each length we tested, we did 3 trials to get a more accurate read of the time to complete a period. we claimed that as the length of the string increased, the time it took to complete one peiod would also increase. our initial claim was proven to be correct. the claims were valid because we made sure to keep all other possible variables at a constant in a natural enviorment. see table 1 and graph 1 for test results. next we tested the effects of the mass on the length of a pendulum’s period, following the same process for testing. we claimed that the mass would not effect the period of a pendulum.our initial claim was correct. the claims were valid because we made sure to keep all other possible variables at a constant in a natural enviorment. refer to table 2 and graph 2 for test results. last we tested the effects of a change in the angle of release on the period of a pendulum, using the same test process as we did in test 1. our initial claim was that the angle of release did not effect the period of a pendulum. our initail claim was only partially correct, after an angle of release greater than 20 degrees, there was a smalle effect on the period of the pendulum. the claims were valid because we made sure to keep all other possible variables at a constant in a natural enviorment. refer to table 3 and graph 3 for test results.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is ((2*pi)/sqrt(g)) *(string length)^(½). our model has a 2.0082 in front of it where the theoretical models has a value of 2.007 in front of it, there is a difference of 0.001 between them. the graph 4 has the value on it for reference.

various improvements can be made to the lab that will improve the lab. there are certain aspects of the movement of the pendulum that were not taken into consideration that could have negatively manipulated the length of the period. if the pendulum was released by a machine that stopped sway and controlled the angle of release, the accuracy of each period’s measurement would be increased. the type of string may contribute to a portion of random error that can influence the period of the pendulum. measurement error of the length of the pendulum could randomly affect the period since the length could be greater or smaller. overall, our system of trials worked well; however, there is an opportunity to conduct a greater amount of trials per experiment to improve consistency between data. the graphed data displays a correlation between each set of data. the trendline added showing the power function help give an idea of the exact equation used.

some possible constraints might be the air resistance and the shape of the weight. in order to find if the air resistance impacts the period of a pendulum, the experiment must be performed in a vacuum. in order to determine if the shape of the weight affects the period of a pendulum, the experiment must include different shapes of the weight, while all the other variables must remain constant.