conclusion:
in this lab we were asked to observe what factors affects the period of a pendulum. 

in our first experiment we hypothesized that the length of the cord, the angle in which the pendulum is dropped, and adding weight onto the end of the bob. after this first experiment, we quickly observed that adding weight onto the end of the bob had no effect on the period. this was due to the fact that the velocity of the pendulum never changed because it was always dropped at the same angle and the cord length was always the same. in our second lab, we looked at the use of error bars and how that could help us refine our results even more. after adding error bars to the graph that compared the angle dropped to the period, we observed that angle had relatively no effect. after all the experiments were concluded, we determined that the length of the cord affected the period. in our first experiment we used stop watches to calculate the period, and continually saw an increase in the period as the length of the cord was increased. in the third experiment we used a photogate to accurately record the time it takes to complete one period to 0.001 seconds. using this device, we were able to determine that length of cord and period have a positive correlation, in which as the length increases so did the time it takes to complete one period. this is a valid claim because we first noticed the trend when we were hand timing, which creates a large margin of error. however, in the third experiment we used a device that is extremely accurate and backed up our results in the first experiment. 

our mathematical model was taken by graphing our data from experiment 3 and finding the equation of the line that passed through our data. the equation we found was             $p=0.0111 l + 0.819$ where p is the period and l is the length of the cord. when you plug in the length of the cord and solve, the answer is very similar to the value recorded from the photogate and in our data table. some of the values will be off slightly because the equation does not include the angle dropped so the equation found assumes it is constant. in reality, we cannot drop the pendulum at the exact same angle every time. this creates the differences in the data. if you were to drop the angle at the exact same angle every time then the time recorded by the photogate, and the time found from the equation should be identical.

one example of error that occurred in our experiment is the hand timing done in experiment one. no matter how hard one person tries it is impossible to start at the exact moment the pendulum drops and the exact moment you define the end of the period.  this is a systematic error that is caused by the handler of the stop watch. however, in experiment three a photogate was used to obtain time. the photogate is accurate to 0.001 seconds, so the data received from the photogate is very accurate because it reduces error by using lasers to find the time. another example of error in our experiments is that the pendulum is never dropped from the exact angle. dropping at the same angle every time is impossible by hand so you must try and reduce this by leaving the protractor in the same spot, which helps eliminate error. keeping the protractor in the same spot allows the user to get close to dropping the pendulum at the same angle consistently. this would also be a systematic error because it is an error caused by the person dropping the pendulum. 

if we had more time to drop the pendulum at the same cord length and angle, about 50 times, you would be able to come closer to the true value of the period by taking the average of all the times. thus, one constraint for this lab is time. you could also define repeatability as another constraint in this lab because there were no tools that allowed us to drop the pendulum at the same angle. this means the recorded periods will not increase at the same rate as they would if consistently dropped from the same angle.