discussion and conclusions:

the purpose of this lab was to determine the mathematical relationships of real systems being affected by newtons second law $f=m a$. those being the effect mass of hanging weight and mass of car on the acceleration (lab 5). then we used the findings from lab 5 to determine how the new variable relationships effects the overall mathematical relationship, this being the effect of the inclined track on the car acceleration (lab 6).
the two experiments in lab 5 showed mathematical relationships coherent with newtons second law $f=m a$. experiment 1 (mass of hanging weight vs car acceleration) resulted in a positive linear relationship as shown in table 1. this positive linear mathematical relationship makes since because as the mass in $f=m a$ increases so would the resulting f or force value, this resulting force value would ultimately cause the acceleration to also increase. experiment 2 (mass of car vs car acceleration) resulted in an unexpected negative power relationship as shown in table 2. this relationship differs from the expected negative linear relationship due to errors discussed above. the mathematical relationship in experiment 2 should be opposite of experiment 1 because all we are doing basically is decreasing the m value in the $f=m a$ equation, this would ultimately decrease the overall acceleration of the system. the one experiment in lab 6 related the relationships found in lab 5 to the new conditions established in lab 6. the new condition added was the incline of the track. during the experiment the data form tables 3 and 4 were collected and showed a linear negative relationship between the incline of the track and the acceleration of the car. this mathematical relationship is justified by newtons second law because while increasing the incline we are basically raising the overall force required to get the car up the track. overall in these experiments we were mainly altering the mass or incline of the system which increased or decreased the force of the system. by doing this we were mainly focusing on the f variable in the $f=m a$ equation.
these whiteboard findings shown by groups 3 and 4 also showed a negative relationship between an alteration to the force and acceleration. in group 3s experiment they tested the effect of the incline of the track on acceleration of the car. in group 4s experiment they tested the effect of magnets on the acceleration of the car. both the addition of incline and magnets are similar to our groups experiment because all the experiments are altering the force negatively. this supports our mathematical model being that an decrease in force requires less acceleration. this relationship is shown by newtons second law $f=m a$.
random errors in our experiments such as the sensors not being calibrated in experiment 2 were present. these errors cause our data to not represent the actual relationships. when repeating the lab checking the if the motion sensors are calibrated would be helpful in the collection of data. systematic errors in our experiments such as the “frictionless air track” having some friction were present also. this error could be resolved by increasing the air power possibly.
the nonprofessional sensors and “frictionless track” could be considered constraints that would impact the generalization of the mathematical relationship findings. these constraints could be resolved by replacing our lab equipment with higher quality equipment.
our two experimental mathematical models are consistent with newtons second law $f=m a$ because in our 1st relationship determined by experiment 1 and 2 in lab 5 showed that if the mass of m2 is raised then the overall force will have to increase, resulting in the acceleration increasing. similarly, if the mass of the system decreases, then the overall acceleration will also decrease. in lab 6 the mathematical relationship showed that decreasing the force needed in a system results in a decreased acceleration, this makes since because as f is decreased in the rearranged equation $a= \frac{f}{m}$, a also decreases. overall in these labs we were testing the alterations to newtons second law and how the effect the different variables present.