discussion and conclusion

the purpose of conduction the experiments 1,2, and 3 was to determine what factors impact and affect the period of a pendulum, were the swing is relatively controlled. the first experiment tested the effect of different angles of release on the pendulums period. during this experiment the factor was the smaller and larger angles of release. after conducting the experiment, a couple conclusions can be made about the period of the pendulum. the first conclusion that can be made is that while the angle is relatively small, 0-20 degrees, the angle has virtually no effect on the time it takes for the pendulum to complete one period. once the angles start to become larger than 20 degrees, however, the period time increased along with the angle. the graphs of the data match this conclusion, showing that as the angle increased, so does the time. the graphs also show that after applying the equivalency criterion, it can be determined that 95 percent of the data falls within two bars. so, if the data falls within two error bars lengths then the data is correct. although each angle increment does not increase the time dramatically, after roughly each 10 degrees the time does noticeably increase these claims were made under two constant variables, mass on the pendulum (250 g), and the length of the pendulum (45 cm).

the second experiment tested to see if the length of the pendulum varied, what the correlation would be to the time for one period,  or if there was any. the independent variable of this experiment, and the factor, was increased and decreased length of the pendulum. in order to achieve reliable and accurate results, two variables were kept constant. the first constant variable was angle of release, and it was kept at 30 degrees. the second constant in the experiment was mass of the pendulum, which was kept constant at 250 g. after performing the experiment under these conditions, this claim could be produced is  as the length of the pendulum increased, so did the time required to complete one period. this claim is verified by the graphs, which depict a clear, positive slope of the line of best fit. the errors bars on the length v. time graph also give information on the equivalency criterion. since labs have inherent error, the error bars are extended twice as long. if the data falls within two error bars, which most do, it can be concluded that the data is correct.

finally, the third experiment conducted to test the research question was on if mass affected the time required to complete on period. as stated above the independent variable in this experiment was mass, and the dependent variable was time. after conducting the experiment in lab three, a claim could be made that the mass on a pendulum does indeed affect the time required to complete on period. this conclusion, however, was created from a flawed experiment, where the data was subjected to a large portion of error. after the second lab, the correct claim can be made that the mass on a pendulum has no effect on the time required to complete a period. this claim is supported by the second graph, which clearly shows the time stayed the same no matter what mass was added to the pendulum. after applying the equivalency criterion to the mass graph of lab one, the data falls outside of two error bars. this supports the claim that the data is incorrect due to error. while conducting this experiment, the length was constant at 36 cm, and the angle of release was kept the same at 30 degrees.

	when dealing with the period of a pendulum, a general theoretical model can be referenced, $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ where length is given in meters. this model can be used to determine the period of a pendulum based on the length of the pendulum. this theoretical model can be compared to the data collect in experiment 2. using the data point of ~160cm, when plugged into the model it comes out to be ~2.5 seconds. this output matches the dependent variable calculated from the experiment. the only variable included in the theoretical model of a pendulum is length. this leads to the conclusion that the variables mass and angle to do have a significant enough impact to be considered while determining the period of the pendulum.

	throughout each experiment, systematic and random errors influences and corrupted some of the data and measurements taken. throughout lab one, a systematic error that occurred happened when taking the measurements of the length of the pendulum. instead of measuring from the arm to the middle of the weight, the measurements were taken from the arm to the top of the weight. this mistake influenced and skewed the data from the correct values. this systematic error however was corrected by the third lab by measuring to the middle of the weight. a random error that occurred during each experiment was when handling the starting and stopping of the timer. since we relied on the human eye, each time measurement was slightly off. the way we fixed this random error was by using photogates in the third lab to start and stop the timer. this took away the human error and made the measurements much more accurately.

	there were not many restraints placed upon each experiment during the labs. one of the few restraints put in place was that the mass could not be greater than 250 g. this restraint however is negligible considering that the mass has no affect on the period of the period. the other restraint on these experiments was that the length of the pendulum can only be as great as from the arm to the floor. this means that the data collected best represents a range similar to the one tested, but it can also apply to every pendulum.