Discussion and Conclusion:
The purpose of this lab was to develop mathematical models which describe the behavior of a real system (lab 05) and understand each variable and numerical value included in the model (lab 06). In Lab 05, the effects of changes in the Forces acting on the system or the changes in the mass of the system on the acceleration of the system were recorded and analyzed to develop mathematical models. The research question was, Which factors affect the acceleration of a system?”. In lab 06, the effect of changes in the physical lab setting on the mathematical models was observed.  
The mathematical model provided by excel shows a positive, linear correlation between force applied and acceleration of the system, that is, the acceleration of the system is larger for larger magnitudes of net force acting on the system. Comparing above equation to the general form of a linear equation, $y = m x + b$ and Newton’s second law, $F = m a$, we get that the slope, m is 2.5338 kg-1. The y-intercept, b is -0.0288. For an ideal system, this value should be zero. However, in a real system, there may be some deviation from the expected results due to the presence of non-conservative forces. Thus, this y-intercept value indicates errors due to the presence of resistive forces.
$a=2.5338 F-0.0288$
The mathematical model provided by excel shows a negative, linear correlation between total mass of the system and the acceleration of the system, that is, for larger masses the acceleration is smaller. Comparing above equation to the general form of a linear equation, $y = c x + b$ and Newton’s second law, $a =\frac{f}{m}$ , we get that the slope, c is -0.7236 ms-2kg-2. The y-intercept, b is 0.7249. For an ideal system, this value should be zero. However, in a real system, there may be some deviation from the expected results due to the presence of non-conservative forces. Thus, this y-intercept value indicates errors due to the presence of resistive forces.
For 0 magnets attached to the cart (from figure 5) is $a=1.7522 F-0.0138$

For 2 magnets attached to the cart (from figure 6) is $a=1.7677 F-0.0385$
For 4 magnets attached to the cart (from figure 7) is $a=1.6531 F-0.0248$
Generalized form of the equation is  $a=1.7243 F-0.0257$
The above equations are of the form $y = c1 x + c2$. Comparing, this general form to the equations above, we see that the slopes are 1.7522, 1.7677, and 1.6531 for trials 1, 2 and 3 respectively. Evidently, the slopes are close in value with an approximate error of 3%.  The y – intercepts, that is, the c2 values are also relatively close to zero (-0.0138, -0.0385, and -0.0248), and hence negligible. Further, it can be said that the non-zero y-intercept indicates the presence of error due to restive forces. This is consistent with Newton’s Second Law, . Based on these observations, it can be concluded that the change in the mass of the system does not affect the relation between the force of friction acting on the system and the acceleration of the system. 
The above graphs (Figures 8, 9, and 10) illustrate the data obtained by group 4, who also tested the effect of change in external factors on the relation between the frictional force and the acceleration of the system. Their findings are consistent with ours; there is a positive correlation between the acceleration of the system and the force acting on the system, which is not affected by the change in external factors. While their observations are similar to ours, their data is more spread out; their R2 values are smaller than that obtained in our experiment. Also, the value for the slopes obtained in our graphs differ greatly. This can be attributed to the presence of systematic errors Group 4 or our experimental setup.  
The data from group 5 (“Group 5 PHYS 2001L-013 19 SS”) shows a decrease in the y-intercept of the mathematical model when the angle of the track is increased. Group 5 tested the effect of the change in the angle of tilt (independent variable) on the acceleration of the system (dependent variable). The heights that the track was raised were 0.3 cm, 0.6 cm, 1.2 cm, 1.7 cm, and 2.9 cm. The y-intercepts of these heights are 0.0258, 0.0185, 0.0534, 0.0729, and .0969 respectively. From this data the conclusion can be drawn that the angle of inclination affects the y intercept more than the force of friction applied to the system (IV). The data that we collected did not show a strong correlation between the force friction applied to the system and the y- intercept.
Defect in Apparatus is  Defects in the apparatus, that is the photogate or the scale of the weighing scale due to wear and tear over time or manufacturing errors may have skewed our measurements by a certain constant. This error can be reduced by using multiple sets of apparatus and taking the average of values so obtained. (Any outliers should be removed.) Similarly, not zeroing the scale can have the same effect on the data.
 Presence of friction is  It was assumed that the system was frictionless. However, very large masses may cause the layer of air to be compressed, therebyfor in the measurement).
Error due to friction introduced as a result of increased weight could not be reduced beyond a certain point as the power of the bed of air could not be increased. Apart from this, other factors that could impact the acceleration of the system, namely, the acceleration due to gravity and the elasticity of the cable attached to the cart could not be analyzed due to the planetary limitations. While the elasticity could be easily tested by by replacing the current cable with a cable of the tester’s choosing, changing the acceleration due to gravity is difficult, however, and would require great changes in altitude or planetary setting. These factors limit the generalizability of our results.
Newton’s Second Law states that the acceleration of an object produced by a net force is directly proportional to the magnitude of the net force. It is given in the lab report that Newton’s Second Law is given by the relation is  
As stated above, under the discussion for the Mathematical Models, each of the equations are consistent with Newton’s Second Law. Each of the equations illustrated the relation a ∝ 1/m or $F = m a$. The constants obtained were consistent with the expected values for acceleration using the value for acceleration due to gravity, g is 9.81 m/s2.
introducing a frictional force on the cart. This error will be systematic if the cart is released from the same position for each iteration of the experiment. This error can be avoided to some extent by using masses that are not too heavy.
It was assumed the string attaching the bobs to the cart is inelastic. Presence of elasticity may induce a constant in the equation, hence skewing our data. This error can be reduced by using a perfectly inelastic cable. 
Error introduced due to viewing the scale incorrectly is a type of random error that may have affected the data. This error can be avoided by
Unsteady system due to Irregular Distribution of Weight is  Since the magnets were not secured on the cart, the weight was irregularly distributed and could have affected the motion. This error can be reduced by securing the magnets on the cart using tape or some other mechanism. (The weight of the tape should be accounted for in the measurement).
Error due to friction introduced as a result of increased weight could not be reduced beyond a certain point as the power of the bed of air could not be increased. Apart from this, other factors that could impact the acceleration of the system, namely, the acceleration due to gravity and the elasticity of the cable attached to the cart could not be analyzed due to the planetary limitations. While the elasticity could be easily tested by by replacing the current cable with a cable of the tester’s choosing, changing the acceleration due to gravity is difficult, however, and would require great changes in altitude or planetary setting. These factors limit the generalizability of our results.
Newton’s Second Law states that the acceleration of an object produced by a net force is directly proportional to the magnitude of the net force. It is given in the lab report that Newton’s Second Law is given by the relation is  
.As stated above, under the discussion for the Mathematical Models, each of the equations are consistent with Newton’s Second Law. Each of the equations illustrated the relation a ∝ 1/m or $F = m a$. The constants obtained were consistent with the expected values for acceleration using the value for acceleration due to gravity, g is 9.81 m/s2.
