discussion and conclusion:

the experimental question was; how does the acceleration of the cart change when the mass of the cart and hanging force changes? this was followed up in lab 6 with the question of; do any other variables affect the acceleration of the cart? our prediction that as we increase the mass of the cart the acceleration will decrease were shown to be true by the negatively sloped graph shown in figure 1, and that increasing the hanging force will increase the acceleration and this is shown and proven by the positive slope of figure 2. most of our data in this experiment had an extremely low error, this was shown by the error bars on the graphs that aren’t visible. this means that our measurements all came in very close to each other for each experiment. as pertaining to figure 2, this is the only figure that error bars can be seen, this was the only trial where they numbers recorded were not very close to each other.
when comparing our numbers to other groups, you can see in figure 6 that we (group 5) had numbers that were very much among the other groups. this gave us confidence that we had carried out the experiments correctly. we learned that in our lab 5 equation formatted $a=c f + c$ ours came out to be $y=2.5837 x + 0.02$ and the equation with the format of $a=c_m-1$ which ours came out to be  we then determined as a class that it would make sense to say that if the constants of the equations would increase then so would the acceleration. after running the lab 6 experiment for tilt all of our constants in that equation increased so therefore our acceleration increased while the constants of friction decreased the constants and therefore decrease the acceleration of the cart. this shows that an incline does in fact increase the acceleration of the cart. this data was also supported in figure 7. which shows another lab group that ran the same experiment as we did and their coefficients all increased as well which supported our data.  when we compared our results to those of our classmates that tested for friction instead of tilt such as in figure 8, we saw that the coefficients in the equations didn’t rise as high as it did with tilt. therefore we determined that the factor of incline has a greater effect on the acceleration of the cart than the factor of friction. 
our predictions that as we increase the mass of the cart the acceleration will decrease and as we increase the tilt the acceleration will also increase. this is shown by the r squared value in figure 1 of .9997 which shows that it is very close to being a linear decline. and the tilt predictions are shown by the r squared values that are all .99 so they are also almost linear but this time in the positive direction. as pertaining to possibly changing the string we were given to possibly a heavier string, my prediction would be that it would increase the acceleration as long as the string doesn’t have much friction against the pulley. this would slow down the system. but if similar friction, it would increase the acceleration because the heavy string may not stretch as much as the string given to us in lab.
in this experiment there were very little errors as shown by the consistency of our data and the very small error bars on the graphs made. the possible errors of this experiment could include the release of the cart on each trial. if there was a system in place so that they were released the same way by a machine the data may have been different. we tested all other errors in the experiment at some point to see if there was a change and they were all negligible. the major constraint on this experiment would be the “frictionless” track that the cart was on. even though it was tested and shown to have little effect on acceleration, a true frictionless track which is near impossible would increase the acceleration of the cart.