discussion and conclusion

research question

the research question being “what affects the period of a pendulum, its angle of release, the mass on its bob or the length of the pendulum itself?” is answered through the measurement of each independent variable’s test (angle, mass and length) over the single dependent variable (period of the pendulum)

experiment conclusions

the experiment with mass as the independent variable and period as the dependent variable which is shown as graph #1 addressed the research question by determining that mass was not a contributing factor to the period of a pendulum.  the graph having a slope of zero shows that a change in mass does not affect the period of the pendulum.   the error bars being small on the graph supports the validity of this conclusion.

the experiment with angle of release as the independent variable and period as the dependent variable which is shown as graph #2 addressed the research question by determining that angle was not a contributing factor to the period of a pendulum.  the graph having a slope of zero shows that a change in angle does not affect the period of the pendulum.   the error bars being small on the graph supports the validity of this conclusion.

the experiment with length of the pendulum as the independent variable and period as the dependent variable which is shown as graph #3 and graph #4 addressed the research question by determining that length was a contributing factor to the period of a pendulum.  the error bars being small on the graph supports the validity of this conclusion.  graphs #1-3 determined which independent variable would affect the period of the pendulum.  graphs #1 and 2 didn’t show any affect on the period but graph #3 did.  therefore, the experiment used to make graph #3 (length of a pendulum vs the period of the pendulum.) was redone with a more accurate timing tool, the photogate.  this new experiment is shown on graph #4.

the correct theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum which was found through the measurements performed on graph #4 was is  $t=0.454264713687202$  


in order to minimize random error for the timing of the period in graphs #1-3. the period of the pendulum was measured by timing 10 periods of the pendulum and dividing the final time by 10. to minimize random error due to inadequate reading of the angle of release, all angles of release were measured perpendicular to the system with a protractor to mitigate parallax effect from reading it at a non-perpendicular perspective.


the constraints of the experiment were the lack of a tool that could provide accurate and consistent angles of release, such a tool would’ve been useful as the angle of release was still measured via the human eye and a protractor.  the pendulum’s system had more than just one degree of freedom, had it only had one degree of freedom there’d have been no risk of oscillation or improper reading of the angle due to a non-perpendicular pendulum.  additionally, the pendulum was susceptible to air resistance, had this experiment been able to be recreated in a vacuum, that constraint would be removed.  these constraints affect the generalizability of the results by impacting the reliability of the experiment’s findings, however, through the techniques for minimizing the error caused by these constraints discussed beneath “random error” the reliability of the experiment is sound, and its findings are valid.