discussion and conclusion

	the purpose for this experiment was to determine what factors are able to affect the period length of a pendulum. the factors that were to be tested in this experiment were the length of the string that the pendulum swings on, the amount of weight on the end of the pendulum string, and the height or angle from which the pendulum was released. these were tested by timing the pendulum swing, calculating the error associated with each test, and determining whether or not the data had a direct correlation. it can be concluded from the data we collected in the experiment that the independent variables of angle and weight had no effect on the time period for the pendulum.  this can be concluded because a line can be drawn through all three error bars, indicated that there was not enough difference between data points to provide definite proof that they influenced the time period.  the horizontal line test determines whether or not we can accept the hypothesis based on the confidence interval of the data.

 it can be concluded that the length of the string did have a significant effect on the time period because a line cannot be drawn in between the error bars. the theoretical equation for this line is $y=0.0112 x + 0.99$ and this shows a linear direct relationship between the length of string and period length.

	there were many errors to be discussed in this experiment. the most present error that we had during this experiment was the random error in the reaction time of the group members and a stopwatch. this was dealt with by using instead a sensor to capture the amount of time in the pendulum swing. more random errors in this experiment were the inconsistency of starting height as well as slack in the pendulum string. systematic errors in this experiment were the stability of all parts, as the pendulum and string weren’t secured very tightly to the table, which was fixed in later versions of the experiment. constraints in this experiment were the amount of weight we could use for the pendulum and the length of the pendulum. we were limited to a small classroom, so we had a limited range on the variables we could test.