conclusion:
The experiment with mass as the independent variable addressed the research question by testing different masses while keeping angle and string length constant. This was achieved by testing masses of 50, 70 , 90, 110, and 210 grams, respectively. The claim that mass does not affect the period of a pendulum can be made as the error bars on the mass vs. period graph can fit a horizontal line. This means that within the error range, there is the possibility that all the true values are the exact same. Additionally, the slopes of the best fit lines were extremely close to zero.

The experiment with length as the independent variable addressed the research question by testing different lengths while keeping angle and mass constant. This was achieved by testing lengths of 30, 35, 40, 45, and 95 centimeters, respectively. The claim that length does affect the period of a pendulum can be made as the error bars on the string length vs. period graph cannot fit a horizontal line. This means that within the error range, there is no possibility that all the true values are the exact same. Additionally, this graph fits a power curve with an extremely high R^2 value, 0.9925.

The experiment with angle of release as the independent variable addressed the research question by testing different masses while keeping mass and string length constant. This was achieved by testing angles of 10, 20, 30, 40, and 50 degrees from the vertical, respectively. The claim that angle of release does not affect the period of a pendulum can be made as the error bars on the angle of release vs. period graph can fit a horizontal line. This means that within the error range, there is the possibility that all the true values are the exact same. Additionally, the slopes of the best fit lines were extremely close to zero.

	The theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is $T=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{L}{G}}$. This mathematical model is supported by our theoretical model as the coefficient for the mathematical equation, $T=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{L}{G}}$ which is 0.2006409293 while the coefficient for theoretical model is 0.2919. Additionally, the graph of string length vs. period fits the theoretical model, 0.2919x^0.4307, with an extremely high R^2 value, 0.9925.

Random errors include, timing error from stopwatch usage, angle of measurement by human eye, measurement of the string. Systematic errors include heavier masses causing the string to be more taught, changing the overall length of the string, the measuring tape not being verified to be accurate, and the mass was not being measured to be verified as accurate. Taking more samples would decrease the number of random errors. Using dial calipers to measure the string after the mass has been hung and to verify the accuracy of the measuring tape, as well as confirming the masses of the weights with a scale would reduce systematic error.

The major constraint of this lab was that we are unable to test different values of G. testing different values of G would allow us to test if the mathematical model holds true in areas with different gravity than on Earth. Additionally, we are unable to test longer lengths of string which would be affected by air resistance to a greater extent. Air resistance and even different levels of air density could potentially affect the validity of the model. We also were unable to use digital scales to measure the mass and there are tools that would have a smaller measurement error. This would help us to reduce systematic error and to take measurements closer to the actual values. Our results can only be generalized to the conditions in the lab room. In conditions other than those found in the lab room, we are unable to make definite conclusions given our data.