discussion and conclusion:

	in this experiment, we were testing if the length, weight, or drop angle of a pendulum had any affect on the period of a pendulum. 

	in the experiment where we had mass as the independent variable, we tested what affect the mass had on the period of a pendulum, while keeping the drop angle and the length the same throughout the trials. with our data, we were able to see that changing the mass of the pendulum had no effect on the period, as the slope of the mass vs. period graph was a straight line. the error bars on this graph were 0.5s, as we believed that we were all within 1 second of the true value.

	in the experiment where we had drop angle as the independent variable, we tested what affect the drop angle had on the period of the pendulum, while keeping the length and the mass of the pendulum the same. with our data, we found that changing the drop angle of the pendulum had no effect on the period, as the slope of this line was also a straight line. the error bars on this graph were 0.5⁰, as the smallest measurement on the protractor was 1⁰.

	in the experiment where we had length as the independent variable, we tested what affect the length of a pendulum had on the period of the pendulum, while keeping the mass and drop angle the same throughout each trial. with our data, we found that changing the length of the pendulum does have an effect on the period of the pendulum. if we increased the length of the pendulum, the period of the pendulum also increased. the slope of our trendline was not a straight line, showing that changing the length of the pendulum does indeed change the period of the pendulum. the error bars for this graph was 0.05cm, as the smallest measurement on our tape measurer was 0.1cm. 

	the theoretical equation of the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, where t is the period, l is the length of the pendulum, and g is the magnitude of acceleration due to gravity. the mathematical model that we found was $t = 0.1634 l^{0.546}$. yes, our mathematical model supports the theoretical model. as the length of the pendulum increases, the period also increases for both equations.

	random errors that could have occurred but were avoided were using different types of string, different types of weights, or changing where this experiment took place. a random error that could have occurred was when we were testing the period of the pendulum with a stopwatch, as our reaction time had a huge factor in what the periods were. to fix this problem, we could use a period measurer, like the one that we used in the 3rd lab. also, another random error that could have occurred was using a frayed string. this may or may not have had an effect on out results, and a way to fix that would be to use a new piece of string. 

	a constraint that could have affected our results was that we could only go up to 250 grams for the weight of the pendulum. if we were able to go over that, we might have been able to see a difference in our graph. also, we were not able to test the length of the pendulum over 1 meter, and if we were able to, we would most likely see a change in the slope of the line for the length vs. period graph.