conclusion:
as a team, we wanted to know what factors impact the period of a pendulum for small swings. the three independent variables we tested were length of the string, the mass of the pendulum, and the angle from which it is released. in preliminary rounds of the experiment, for each of the three independent variables, the two independent variables not being tested were held constant. for example, when angle was the independent variable being tested, length and mass were held constant. for all three trials, the pendulums period was the dependent variable. during the first round of the experiment, we found that the only independent variable that affected the dependent variable was the length of the string, so we tested it again to find the precise relationship. during this in-depth experiment, the constants were a release angle of 15 degrees, and a mass of 50 grams. we hypothesized that as string length increased, so would the period time. we predicted that there would be a positive, linear correlation between the independent and dependent variable. 

the above three graphs are the preliminary trials. the length vs time graph is figure one, the angle vs time graph is figure two, and the mass vs time graph is figure 3. looking at the mass vs time and angle vs time graph, the error bars overlap, so we know that there is no correlation between those two factors and the time. 

above are the table and matching graph (figures four and five) for our final trial between string length and pendulum period. the times for this trial were obtained using a photogate. 

when we began the experiment, we made the claims that release angle and string length would affect the period, and mass would not. we found that our claims about string length and mass were correct, but we incorrectly claimed that release angle would affect the period. as seen in figure two, the error bars overlap, disproving our claim that angle affected the periods time. similarly, figure three proves that we were correct in our claim that mass does not affect the period length. figure one demonstrates that we were correct that string length does affect the period length with a positive correlation because the error bars do not overlap, but we were incorrect in saying that the relationship was linear. looking at figure five, the best fit trend was non-linear. 

the theoretical mathematical model for period length is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. our model, $t=0.1862 x^{0.515}$ fits with this because they are both exponential functions. nowhere in the function t are mass or angle of release found, which supports our finding that those two independent variables do not affect period time. 

there were not any systematic errors that we noticed in our experiment. we made sure to “zero” the scale before using it and were careful when setting up the photogate, which are the two biggest threats for systematic error. originally, there was likely random error in our timing technique, which was the four group members each timing the period using a stopwatch, which is an estimate at best. to fix this, we used the photogate, which gave us more precise timing. in the future, we could further eliminate random error by doing the experiment in a closed off room, just so that factors such as other students bumping our table, or a breeze from an open window do not cause random error. 

constraints in the experiment that may limit the generalizability of the results are the fact that used a protractor and ruler to measure the angle and length. more precise tools could yield more accurate results.