discussion

the purpose of this lab is to investigate how different factors such as friction and the angle of a system affect the acceleration of a system. during the first lab period we investigated our hypothesis of as the mass of the system increases the acceleration of the system decreases. the second hypothesis that we tested was the force applied to the system causes the acceleration to increase in the system. when these hypotheses were test mathematical models were constructed for the different tests. in the second lab period our team investigated whether or not friction would impact the system. the hypothesis that was tested was that as friction on the cart increased the acceleration of the system decreased. mathematical models were found for this hypothesis as well.

in this lab experiments were conducted where data was collected. in testing our first hypothesis of that as the mass of the system increased the acceleration would decrease. to do this we had a track which simulated a frictionless surface and the mass of the cart was increased as the force pulling the cart was constant. to test our second hypothesis we tested to see if the force applied to the system causes the acceleration to increase in the system. to do this we used the same system as above but increased the weight on the tension. we had to keep the mass of the system constant in this test so mass was removed from the cart and added to the tension force. to test the third hypothesis of as friction on the cart increased the acceleration of the system decreased, the same system was used as stated above. trials were ran with magnetic bars attached to the sled. these bars caused more friction between the track and the sled and all other variables were kept the same as the experiments listed above. when the sleds were tested with their varying factors the computer tracked the acceleration of the cart. then using the computer and differentiating that graph the acceleration was found in the system. then with the different factors of force applied, mass of the cart, and friction the accelerations were put into another chart and a line of best fit was found. the mathematical formula for the force applied is $a=2.6358 f + 0.4012$ where the “a” represents acceleration and the “f” represents force applied. this mathematical model indicated that if the force (the independent variable) increases or decreases, the acceleration (the dependent variable) will behave the same. for the mass of the system a power curve was created the equation is 	$y=\frac{0.1936}{x^{1.54}}$ the constant 0.1936 must be representing m/kg and the constant exponent -1.546 must be representing m/s^-2. for the friction tests the mathematical graph of approximately 1.6x-0.0035. one graph has a little variance due to the cart moving at a very slow rate and caused a error. with all the mathematical models we are now able to predict the acceleration of the cart if a certain mass of the cart is applied. due to all the equations being the same for each friction force that is applied it was found that friction does not affect the acceleration of the system.
our team exchanged data with two different groups during the lab group 2 and group 3 and their data is found above. group 2 investigated the friction on the system similar to our group. their mathematical models confirm our results. the third group investigated how the angle of the track changes the acceleration of the system. based on their models it is found that tilting the system will affect the acceleration. their mathematical models can be found in their pictures above.

there is error included in this lab. there are 2 types of error and they are random and systematic and both types occur in this lab. systematic error can come from a flaw in the experiment. systematic errors in this lab include having the surface having some friction. the system also does not account for the pulley and there could be some energy lost in that system. there is also random error in this experiment. random error consist of error that is produced by humans. there is random error in this lab which comes from the computer model. the computer accounts for the error and gives a range that the value can fall within. this error can be found in the table and cannot be found on the graph because they are very small. another form of random error is when the mass of the bobbers was found. the triple beam balance was used and there will be error in the measurement of the mass. 

there are constraints in this experiment which would limit the generalizability of the resulting equations. the constraints that were in the experiment was keeping the mass of the system constant. if this did not happen then the system would have force added and then the acceleration would not be able to be calculated.

the mathematical models are consistent with newtons second law. newtons second law is the sum of forces is equal to the mass multiplied by acceleration. in this system the tension was the mass of the bobbers multiplied by gravity and that pulled the car. then the track was frictionless so the only force was tension in the x direction. the resulting formula was tension $y =m a$. so the tension was known and the mass of the system stayed constant and acceleration was measured. this stayed consistent with the mathematical models which were found in the lab. then for the system which included friction, the friction can be added to the sum of the forces. the mathematical models still stay consistent with newtons second law.