discussion and conclusion.

the purpose of lab 05 was to develop mathematical models from collected data to describe the behavior of a system. in this case, the system was a mass on a track that would gain acceleration from the force of gravity on an attached hanging mass on a pully. as a supplement to lab 05, lab 06’s purpose was to develope the understanding of how additional aspects of the physical lab, could affect variables of the mathematical model.

in the first experiment, the model created was $a=c f - c$ where c1 is a constant equal to the inverse of the mass of the system, f is the force applied to the system, and c2 is the constant acceleration due to any tilt or friction on the system. if c2 is negative, then the factor worked against the motion of the system. this model developed in experiment one was also applied to experiment three. in experiment three however, the values obtained for at were much greater as there was a backwards tilt applied to the track in experiment three. in the second experiment as part of lab 05, the affect of mass 1 on the acceleration of the system was tested. the model $a =\frac{c}{m}$ or cm-1 was created. this model came about because if the force on the system was held constant(c) while mass(m) increased, an inverse relationship was created between mass and acceleration. in out trials themselves. the numerical values turned out to be $a = 838.08 x^{-1.15}$. this very closely fits the variable model except for the additional 0.15 in the exponent. this slight deviation was probably a result of the slight margins of error and the fact that the provided model was for the line of best fit throughout data points.
as can be seen in these other group’s work, an increase in magnets caused in increase in c2 value. much like how an increase in tilt caused a decrease in our c2 value. in both instances c2 is negative as the addition of these factors worked against the forward motion of the system. this helps add to our understanding that c2 is a constant that represents acceleration due to additional factors from the physical lab as the other groups found similar results. additionally, as is seen in group 3’s work, the overall acceleration of the system decreases with the addition of aspects from the physical lab. this very much aligns with the results that we had drawn from our tests with increased inclines. 



random errors that may have affected results could mainly consist of inattention to details such as the incorrect measurements for a trial. for example, the wrong mass could be added for a specific trial. one small mistake may skew that one data point. possible systematic errors could include once again inaccurate measurements, except this time of constants. another error could be due to setting up equipment incorrectly. this may result in recording data for the wrong independent variable values. in order to prevent such errors, documentation of each measurement as well as multiple measurements of the same variable could be made to keep track of values.

a constraint that could affect generalizability would be performing the experiment in a controlled environment as we had. in the experiment, the mass moved across a frictionless surface. not all surfaces on which a similar system may be carried out are frictionless as was simulates. with external environmental factors values could be affected to some degree though not drastic. in addition, the string that attached mass 1 to mass 2 sat upon a pulley. the force that the pully could have attributed was not accounted for. by leaving out such factors, generalizability could be lessened.

the first mathematical model comes directly from newton’s second law rearranged to solve for acceleration with m held constant. this equation would be $a=\frac{f}{m}$. in my model c1f-c2, c1 is the 1/m in newton’s second law. in the model it is represented by c1 as the mass is being held constant. because newton’s law shows the direct relationship and does not account for external forces such as tilt or friction, c2 must be added to represent those forces.

the second mathematical equation, $a = c m^{-1}$ was found by rearranging newton’s second law to solve for acceleration ($a=\frac{f}{m}$) but instead with a constant force. c in this instance is force and m-1 is the same as 1/m.