discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of these experiments was to determine what variables impacted the period of pendulum. 


mass is  one of the variables that was tested for its impact on the period of pendulum was mass. upon reviewing the data, it can be concluded that mass does not impact the period of pendulum. this statement holds true when controlling other variables such as length of string and period of pendulum. as seen in figure 1, there is no relationship. the standard deviation is not very small, indicating that there was variability in our measurements. the error bars also overlap and are reasonably big further exemplifying this point. because the values obtained are very similar, it can be deduced that the mass does not have an impact on the period.
length of string is  another variable tested for its impact on the period of pendulum was length of string. upon reviewing the data, it can be concluded that length of string does have an impact on the period of pendulum. this was tested while keeping the mass and angle of release controlled.  more specifically, as seen in figure 2, this relationship is demonstrated by a power function. the error bars seen were very small and there was no overlap seen indicating the measurements were not very similar. the standard deviation was also very small further exemplifying this point. the r2 value obtained was 1 demonstrating that with the data obtained, it can be deemed with 100% certainty that the change in period of pendulum was a result of the change in length of string.
angle of release is  another variables tested for its impact on the period of pendulum was angle of release. upon reviewing the data, it can be concluded that the angle of release does not have an impact on the period of pendulum. this trend can be seen while keeping the length of string and mass controlled and also while only looking at an angle below 20°. as seen in figure 3, error bars overlapped and were quite big indicating that there was not too much variability in our measurements. the standard deviation was also pretty small further indicating that not much variability was seen.


the theoretical mathematical model is is  $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$
the experimental mathematical model that was found with our data was is  $t = 2.0062 l^{0.5045}$
when looking at the theoretical equation, the main variables that impact the period of pendulum are length of string and gravity. this can be seen in figure 2 when looking at the power function relationship length of string has to the period of pendulum. length was also represented in our mathematical model. in fact, the theoretical model had a constant of 2pi and a coefficient of 0.5. they also included the variable g, gravity. our experimental model included a constant of 2.0062 and a coefficient of 0.5045 along with only one variable, l. the differences seen can be attributed to the design of our experiment and the lack of inclusion for gravity and its effects on the period of pendulum. the small differences in the coefficient could also be a result of some inaccuracies that occurred during the experiment.
figures 1 and 3 – which look at the impact of mass and angle of release on period of pendulum – further support the theoretical and experimental model as they show no correlation to the period of pendulum.


random errors seen during the experiment include difficulty keeping some of the variables controlled. for example, we had difficulty maintaining consistency while using the timer and also keeping the same angle of release.
systematic errors seen could have involved the mass of the weights being slightly off than their supposed value as well as an issue with the durability of the string or the ring stand it was attached to.
the errors can easily be reduced by performing more trials with the same variables (more than 3 per each set of values, for example). this way, we could see the average value of measurements to try and account for random error. in terms of systematic error, we could double check the mass of the weights used, for example. more trials can also be used to confirm that the error is systematic and not random. overall, using some form of machines – as was used in week 3 when measuring the impact of length of string on period of pendulum – could help minimize human error.

one of the main constraints of this experiment was human error. as discussed above, human error results in some inconsistencies while measuring the impact of all variables on the period of pendulum. the independent variables used were also not very varied as we only looked at a range of 70g when looking at the impact of weight, for example. we also did not account for other factors (that could be confounding) such as gravity or air resistance. the lack of trials and repetition also indicates that the results obtained may not be completely reliable and maybe less accurate. in order to address these constraints, new experimental designs should be set up.