conclusion
The purpose of lab 05 was to develop mathematical models that represent the impacts of very common systems that involve a parallel force on a flat plane. The purpose of lab 06 was to observe the differences of the equations as the inclination increased and to show what each variable was meant to do.
The 5 experiments in labs 05 and 06 led to some basic mathematical models that were easy to predict. In Figure 1 it was obvious that as the hanging force increased the acceleration would also increase and for Figure 2 that the acceleration would decrease as the mass of the cart increased. In lab 6, we thought we wouldn’t see much of a change in our equations but from figure 3 – 5, we noticed a steady decrease of the coefficient of F and an increasing Y intercept. In the Figures themselves F or x is the hanging force, the y-intercept is the additional force on the system most likely due to the hanging string since the force is constantly increasing through figures 3-5, and R2 is how closely your equation fits your graph.


This team performed the same experiment that we did further enforcing my thinking that x is the hanging force and the y-intercept is the additional force on the system. I’m unable to determine what the coefficient of the x is with any real certainty. My thinking is that it may by the acceleration when 1 N of force is applied but I’m unable to describe this as a set factor (Ex. Friction or gravity). 


This team’s findings are a bit confusing seeing as how one magnet caused more friction than two magnets but assuming that they may have accidentally switched the last two equations, it appears that the coefficient of x is how much acceleration you can achieve with 1 N of force and that the y-intercept is additional forces on the system. Their y-intercept was negative because friction caused the system to slow down rather than speed up.
Our experiment was most likely completely free of random errors due to our R2 value being so high, but we could have still had systematic errors. For one, the motor reading acceleration could have been sticky causing the acceleration to read lower than it should have been. Additionally, the air pushing the cart up (trying to make the surface frictionless) could have been not enough, causing friction to occur anyway and lowering our acceleration as well as our y-intercept. Many of the systematic or random errors we could have faced were taken care of by our setup thankfully and saved us a lot of trouble as well as make our results more precise. The setup took care of causing virtually no friction with the air lifting the cart causing friction to be zero even if something were to accidentally fall on the track. The setup also took care of measuring the acceleration, so we didn’t have to worry about timing anything with a stopwatch, which has a large margin of error, and measuring how far the cart was going to travel. In the future further random error could be prevented by having all the weights on the card be the same mass, instead of one being slightly different than the rest.
During the experiment we were constrained to only using a small section of track and a few select weights that we couldn’t control so it really forced our models to follow a select path where if we had been able to design our own course with our own weights then we could find the differences in our models more readily.
Our mathematic models are consistent with Newtons Second Law because if at any point you wish to find the acceleration without using a graph, just take the hanging force and divide it by the mass of the system. Guaranteed you’ll find that the number you’ve gotten is close to the plotted point on the graph proving that our mathematic models are consistent with Newtons Second Law.