conclusion:

what affects the period of a pendulum? is it the mass? length of the string? how about the angle of which the pendulum is dropped from? in labs 01-03 we investigated the answers to these questions and found that what affects the period of a pendulum is in fact the length of the string. as shown in figure 1. there is a positive correlation between the length of the string and the amount of time it takes for the pendulum to finish its period. from this data we can conclude that as the length if the string increases so does the time interval for the period of the pendulum. 

we tested the length of the string, mass of the object, and the angle of release to test what affects the period of a pendulum. the claims we made were that all of the variables would affect the period of the pendulum, however, our data shows that only the length of the string and the mass of the object would affect the period of the pendulum, as shown in figure 1. and figure 2. the conditions of our claims are that if whichever one you are testing the others have to be your controls. 

the theoretical mathematical model for our experiment is        $t=0.0123 l + 0.7876$             (l being the length of the string). the theoretical model refers that gravity is not affecting the period. however, we can not test if gravity affects the period of the pendulum theoretically we can assume that gravity would indeed affect the period of the pendulum. the angle of release had no correlation (as shown in figure 3.) which means that did not affect the period of the pendulum. the mass had a negative correlation which means it made the pendulum swing faster as time continued. these factors compared to the theoretical model are what can occur in every day and cause error. the error caused in the different factors will alter the working equation rather than sticking with the theoretical model.

random error was present based on the data in figure 1. there is an outlier which means that the data was not true and that something went wrong in that set of data. in figure 2. the error bars do not overlap as much as they could therefor there is some error in that data. there could have been error due to putting force on the pendulum when dropping it. there could have been systematic error present with the mass of the objects not exactly what they said they were or the tape we used to measure the length of the string was incorrect. to reduce the amount of error that occurs in our labs would be to have only one person to time the period rather than two so that the data is consistent. having only one person to drop the pendulum and catch it so that stays consistent. we could have done more trials and collect more data to ensure better averages therefor having better data points. 

the constraints on this experiment would be that we were not able to  test if gravity affects the period of the pendulum. we were not able to test this aspect because we did not have the equipment to either go to the moon or do the experiment in a gravity defying chamber. other restricts would be the amount of time we had to complete the experiment. the time restraint prevented us from doing more than three trials per data point.