conclusion:

	the goal of these lab periods was to determine how the acceleration of a hanging mass connected to a cart on a frictionless plane changes when the hanging mass changes as well. when testing this, we found that as you increase the hanging mass while keeping the mass of the system constant, you also increase the acceleration of the system. this experiment resulted in a liner line with the equation of $y=0.0028 x - 0.0164$. this is the relationship between the acceleration of the system (y) and the force of gravity (x). this also relates back to the theoretical model of $f=m a$. in this case we have two systems. there is the force of gravity which is the hanging mass multiplied by the acceleration due to gravity, and then there is the force of the system which is equal to the mass of the system multiplied to the acceleration of the system. in the mathematical model found, the slope of the linear equation is equal to the reciprocal of the mass of the system. the reason why there is a y-intercept in the equation is due to a systematic error in the experiment. there are many different systematical errors that could have cause this intercept. some of which are the tilt of the airway track, the force of friction, and also air resistance. there was no random error in the experiment because every measurement we made was all made through the sensor on the air track. because of this, our measurements were all within 0.001 m/s^2 when it came to the measure acceleration. 

when completing an experiment like such, you can expect the resultant measured acceleration to be close to that calculated by the theoretical model. if you were to take the hanging mass and multiply it by gravity, then divide by the mass of the system, you would be very close to the measured acceleration. the only reason why you may be off is due to the systematic errors listed above. overall this experiment went smoothly, but there were some constraints to it all. most of the constraints dealt with time in the lab, however, because we couldn’t get as much data as we had hoped for nor looked at other groups data to compare our results.