conclusion:

the question being investigated from these procedures is what variable can impact the period of a pendulum. regarding mass, my group found that there was no real correlation between the mass and the period. having more than three data points on figure 1 would have made that clearer but the first and last point with their error bars are even. given that the mass uncertainty was at most 1% of the total mass, the total error bars for this graph are rather small. still, considering the equivalency criterion of double the error bars, it can be said that the three points’ time values overlap with 95% certainty.

regarding the angle, it was found that there was a positive correlation beyond 25°. this is confirmed by figure 2 even though the error bars are slightly larger. nonetheless, the equivalency criterions of the first and last point do not overlap so it can be said with 95% certainty that there is a positive correlation between drop angle and period. my group was informed by our ta that the correlation ends once the angle becomes less than 25°. this is due to the forces being separated into x and y components with the x component being rounded to zero with a small angle.

regarding length, figure 3 appears to show a positive correlation between string length and period, but this cannot be confirmed. the error bars for this graph are the largest due to the proportion of measurement and range of uncertainty. the equivalency criterion of the first and last points overlap so the certainty of there being a positive correlation was slim. that is why the test was redone using a photogate to reduce this uncertainty. it was very effective as one can see from figure 4. with a large amount of error located, my lab group could confirm with above 95% certainty, that there is a positive correlation between string length and period time. 

the theoretical mathematical model for a pendulum’s period is as follows is  . meanwhile, my group’s model was based off our findings in figure 4 and was is  $t=0.2933 l^{0.424}$ with an r^2 value of 0.9999. my group’s findings are a little off compared to the theoretical model. acceleration due to gravity remained the same throughout and neither model involves the mass as mass has no correlation to the period. however, my prediction for the origin of the discrepancy between the two models to be drop angle. this is because the theoretical model has no specific angle it is set for. thus, while the influence of drop angle is minimized when kept below 25°, it is not erased and could be a source of error for this difference in models.

speaking of error, there were numerous sources of error that my group knew of and we did our best to eliminate the controllable errors. my group had only one of us whose job it was to run the stopwatch to prevent error between multiple people’s reaction time. we did multiple trials for each test and used the average of these trials to reduce random error in the timer’s own reaction time. there is the possibility of the stopwatch not counting time correctly. that would be a systematic error and could be fixed through calibration. there is the possibility of stopping the watch too soon or too late for a full period. this random error could be solved through a visible point the pendulum passes to mark a full period. last, the environment the experiment was conducted in was not frictionless. this could cause a form of systematic error that could be eliminated in a vacuum with a well-oiled string.

some constraints that can limit generalizability include materials, experience of those doing the experiment, time constraints, and organization. for materials, the equipment that we were using was intended for students, not for a high-profile laboratory. that means that the materials have more wear and tear involved as well as less accurate means of measuring values. in a laboratory, people likely use equipment other than standard measuring tape when finding the length of string. they would probably use something other than string as well. regarding experience, those conducting the experiment in class are exactly that, in class. we are learning about how to properly format these experiments as well as identify and reduce error. thus, due to a lack of experience, there is more likely to be general errors made that one would not see in a professional setting. time constraints can add pressure to students which could in turn make them more likely to make a mistake, something professionals would be able to handle. lastly, any professional physicists studying this are much more likely to have a rigorous setup to minimize any possible errors while we had a stopwatch, a string, and some masses.