conclusion: 
	
	for this experiment we are researching how the mass of the weight affects the time period of the pendulum. the outcome from the research question is that the mass of the weights has little to no effect on the period of the pendulum. this is most likely due to the fact that the force of gravity is the same on any mass so as the mass is changing the force of gravity is staying the same. this is represented by the fact the line created by the data points is relatively horizontal with no slope. because the error bars overlap on the different data points it represents that one cannot claim that one mass creates a shorter or longer pendulum. the theoretical equation is $y=5e^{-0.5} x + 1.4435$. this supports the claim that there is no correlation between the mass of the weights and the period of the pendulum because the slope is so small it can be considered almost irrelevant to the equation. the curve fitting that goes along with the equation is almost a completely straight horizontal line supporting the claim. some random errors that could have occurred could have been the path the pendulum swung. once the pendulum is dropped the conductor of the experiment has no control over the path it takes. some systematic errors that may have occurred could have been not starting or stopping timer at the exact moment or the angle not being exact each time the experiment was performed. this error can be reduced by having multiple timers going at once because the more times recorded the more accurate the results will be. for the angle by taking one’s time and being very careful from the point the weight is dropped is ways to reduce errors from that situation. some constraints we had were we only had a limited number if masses to change and so we may not have been able to have as broad of a range as possible. this may have affected the results in the long run because without a broader range of masses the results may not have been as accurate. another constraint taken into consideration could be the time restraint with having two hours to complete three experiments it limited the amount of time we could take to check on our accuracy and perform the experiments. 

 the research we are looking for in experiment is how the length of the string affects the time period of the pendulum. the results of the experiment were that as the length of the string increase the time period also increases. this is most likely due to the fact that as the string gets longer the distance covered is going to be more resulting in a longer time period. the error bar and curve line clearly represent that there is a constant increase in time as the string lengthens. the error bars are relatively small in the direction of the time showing that there is little error in the results meaning that the results are relatively accurate. the theoretical equation is $y = 0.0176 x + 0.784$ representing that for every centimeter added to the length the time will increase by 0.0176 seconds. the curve line shows this because it shows that the line is increasing at a constant rate. random errors may be present in the path the pendulum takes because it may not be straight and change how long it takes for the pendulum to complete it swing. some systematic errors may be present from not starting or stopping the timers at the exact correct time or not dropping the mass at the exact correct angle. these errors can be reduced by taking time to make sure the angle is correct and having multiple timers going because the more times recorded the more accurate the results will be. some constraints present during the experiment could have been the time or the limited lengths possible. the time given to complete the three experiments limited the time we had to focus on the details and to double check that everything is accurate. the materials given limited how long we could make the string and how broad the range of lengths we had to experiment. with the less range of length there is less accuracy because a broader range will increase accuracy. 
the research being found in this experiment is to find if the angle of swing affects the time period of the pendulum. from our data it shows that as the angle increases the time increases. this could be from the smaller the angle the more path there is to cover for the pendulum. we had the angle represent the space between the top of the structure and the string. the error bars somewhat overlap at certain spots representing that while our results may make sense, we cannot completely assume that they are accurate. the theoretical equation is $y = -0.0042 x + 1.555$. this equation is saying that for every degree the angle increases the time decreases by 0.0042 seconds. while the curve line represents a constant decrease the slope from the equation is so small it may be able to be considered irrelevant. random error can be present from the path of the pendulum because it may not go completely straight or the same path each swing which is out of the control of the experimenters after it is dropped. some systematic errors could be from not being completely accurate when dropping the mass from the angle or the timers not starting or stopping at the exact moment. some constraint can be from the lack of time given to complete the experiments leaving less time for checking accuracy. the angles for the experiment were given to us and were not that broad leading to possibly less accuracy in our results.




the research of this experiment was to see if the angle of the swing affected the time period of the pendulum. it appears that as the angle increases the time period also increases. for this as the angle increases the drop got further away from the stopping point resulting in there being more distance that needs to be covered. the error bars are relatively small representing little error in the results meaning that the results would be rather accurate with little error. the theoretical equation is $y=0.0074 x+1.8597$ which represents that as the degree increases by one the time increases by 0.0074 seconds. the only random errors that could occur during this experiment would be technology ones. a systematic error that could occur is pressing the start or stop button at the wrong time and getting the wrong time period which would throw off the results. the constraints on this experiment would be that there was not really an easy way to press start on the pendulum swing and on the timer at the same time. 

 the research of this experiment was if the length of the pendulum affected the time period of the pendulum. the results show that the period of the pendulum does increase as the length increases. the error bars and curve line represent this and that there is little error in the results. the r^2 score is also 0.9981 which is relatively close to 1 which means that results are fairly accurate. the theoretical equation is $y=0.0005 x^2 -0.026 x+1.7017$. the results represent a polynomial equation. some random error that could have occurred could have been the photogate not recorded or incorrectly recording all the swings. some systematic error could have been from dropping at not the exact angle or the timer being off. some of the constraint could have come from the little amount of variety in lengths that could be used resulting in a narrower range and less accurate results.