conclusion: 

research question: what factors impact the period of a pendulum?

in the first experiment, we tested three different variables to see if they would affect the period of a pendulum. the variables that we chose were weight, angle, and length. we found that the angle and weight did not affect the period of the pendulum. as you can see in figure 1 and figure 2 the graphs are a straight, horizontal line. this means that no matter the angle or weight it does not significantly affect the period of a pendulum. on the other hand, in figure 3, you can see that the time is increasing as the length increases which means this is a positive correlation in the length of the string on the period of the pendulum. in the second experiment, we looked at the distribution of the data that we collected and how different systematic errors and random errors might have occurred and how we could fix them to make the data more accurate. overall, the second experiment still enforced our first experiment claim that the only variable that affected the period was length. the third experiment we used a time gate that made the data collection very accurate. this only backed up our claim more that just the length affected the period of the pendulum. as you can see in figure 4, the graph looks like a power curve. this mean that the relationship between length and time is a power function.

the theoretical mathematical relationship between the length of a string and time is modeled by the equation $y=2.0 x^{0.5}$. in figure 4 you can see how close our data fits this model with our equation being very close to the theoretical.

the two biggest errors in the experiment were timing the period and the angle at which it was dropped. the timing was a random error when it was done by us because human error is involved because we had to guess exactly where the pendulum stopped so it was not very accurate. this was corrected by using a photo gate which was accurate to .001 seconds so our data was very accurate. the angle at which it was dropped at was also eyeballed so it was not dead accurate on the angle that we were going for. a way to fix this would to set something up so it could be released from the exact spot every time.