conclusion:
research question: what independent variables (length of string, mass, and angle of release) affect the length of the period of a pendulum? 

the first investigation involved with this question was using the mass of the counterweight as the independent variable, with length of string and angle of release being control variables. we tested various weights, ranging from 50 grams to 210 grams in increments of 40, totaling up to 5 different tests. our prediction was that the mass would not affect the period of the pendulum, this can be seen to be true in our graphs of period time vs mass. the error bars show half of the accepted error, as well as the data points are randomly placed upon the graph with no correlation to change in the mass. the length of the error bars makes it reasonable to assume that all of these data points could be nearly the same, thus showing that mass of the counterweight does not affect the length of the period. 



	the second investigation of what affects the period of a pendulum was conducted with an experiment using the angle of release as the independent variable, with mass and length of string being the control variables, with the period of the pendulum being the dependent variable. the values of the angles started at 5 degrees from center and moved up in increments of 5 up to 25 degrees from the center for a total of 5 tests. our prediction was that the period would not be affected by the change in the length of the period. the graphs above seem to show two conflicting pictures the first one without error bars shows that there appears to be no correlation between length of the period and the angle of release, however the one with error bars appears to show a linear increase over the increase in the angle, however when you keep in mind that the actual accepted range of error is actual 2 sigma, meaning double the length of the error bars displayed, one can see how there would be much reason to doubt that the angle of release affects the period of the pendulum, thus the prediction that angle of release does not effect the period of the pendulum may still hold true. 



	the third investigation of what affects the period of a pendulum involved an experiment that used the length of the string as an independent variable, while angle of release and mass of the counterweight were control variables, with the period of the pendulum being the dependent variable. our prediction was that the length of the string would affect the period of the pendulum. the graphs above show a linear correlation between the two, with the length of the string increasing in intervals of 6 inches to 18 inches showing the time for the period to increase as well. this can be seen to hold true even taking the error into account, thus our prediction can be said to be not proved false here. 



	finally, in the 3rd lab we conducted the third investigation a second time, but with much longer lengths of string so that the change in the time period was far more noticeable. the independent variable was the length of the string while the control variables were the mass of the counter weight and the angle of release. however, the main purpose of this lab was to produce a mathematical model of the data gathered from the pendulum rather than investigate what affected the period of the pendulum. to do this we recorded the data, length of the period and the length of the string, and input them into excel, producing the graph seen above, from there we created a trend line to create the model for the data, the trend line created fit our data very well, with an r^2 value of 0.9999 as can be seen above. the model we created was 2.0811x^0.4481 which is quite similar to the theoretical equation for the length of what the period of a pendulum which is   $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$             thus, it is reasonable to conclude that our tests of the length of the string of the pendulum are showing what really effects the period of the pendulum. 

	throughout this lab we were faced with the challenge of minimizing the random error that occurred primarily due to human error throughout the lab, in the first lab the main way we mitigated the random error was twofold, first we had two people taking measurements of time on the period of the pendulum, then averaging the two values that we recorded. secondly, instead of waiting only one period of the pendulum, and thus increasing the likely hood of our reaction time effecting the data we took a reading over 5 periods, then divided that number by 5 to get the length of one period. this was the only random error we were able to actively work against, any systematic errors would have been involved with either the length of tape measures, the increments on protractors, or the settings on the scales we used. however, given the conditions under which the experiments took place, there was little to be done to mitigate these other than remain using the same measuring instruments throughout the lab to maintain consistency. 

	there were a few constraints on this lab, the most prominent one being not only on the lab but on the theoretical mathematical model as well, that is this method really only applies to release angles that are less than 30 degrees. this of course limits the model a considerable amount towards what it can actually be used to describe, given that 30 degrees is a very small amount of possible release angles.