discussion:



	what affects the period of a pendulum? through investigation of each independent variable is  angle of release, mass of the pendulum, and the length of the rope on which the pendulum swings, a few claims were made. when the angle was used as the independent variable, it was found that there was no correlation between the period of the pendulum and the angle of release. however, this can only be said for angles < 25°. when the mass was used as the independent variable, it was also found that there was no correlation between the mass of the pendulum and the period of the pendulum; the heavier or the lighter the mass, the period of the pendulum will remain unchanged. interestingly enough, when having the length of the rope as the independent variable, there was a correlation between the length of the rope and the period of the pendulum. as the length of the rope was shortened, the period of the pendulum increased in speed and vice versa. you may refer to figure 1, figure 2, and figure 3 above to see each of these relationships between the independent, dependent, and constant variables. the hypotheses and predications that were originally made in table 2 and table 3 were found to be incorrect in that there was no correlation; however, table 1 was proven to be correct.



conclusion is 



	through our previous trials in this experiment, there are some factors of systematic and random errors that need to be addressed. random error that is inevitable would be reaction time; when the person releases the pendulum and when the other person may hit start on the stop watch. systematic errors may include but aren’t limited to the measuring device or how the person was measuring with the measuring device and the accuracy. the random error of reaction time and the systematic error of the measuring device was reduced by using a photogate set-up. the photogate measured the period of the pendulum without the need of a person starting and stopping a stop watch. as shown by our previous labs, the angle of the pendulum’s release and the mass of the pendulum have a negligible impact on the period of the pendulum’s oscillation, leaving the length of the rope as the only independent variable that has an impact on the period of the pendulum. with this being said, we are able to eliminate the mass (kg) and angle (°) from our theoretical mathematical model; we must keep in mind that this is for angles < 25°.  with this information, a mathematical model was derived to find t (period of a pendulum). the equation is 	. since our  value is equal to 0.9999 or ~1, the data points go directly through nearly every data point; the accuracy is very precise and undoubtedly very accurate. this experiment was carefully analyzed and repeated multiple times to reduce error and to further investigate the impact of the length of the rope on the period of the pendulum.