discussion and conclusion

	the research question we were experimenting for was what impacts the period of a pendulum. the first lab 1 experiment showed that only the length of the string effects the period of a pendulum. the mass as well as the angle of release do not affect the period. this is shown specifically in graphs which included the error bars such as graphs 4,5, and 6. the only graph where the error bars do not overlap are graph 5 which is the impact on the period by length. this shows us that the other two factors, mass and angle of release, do not affect the period of a pendulum. the graphs 1 and 4 have an outlier which is the last point on each and that is contributed to random error. the error bars for the mass vs period graphs show that because they are overlapping, this is due to random error of the stopwatches not being fast enough. the reason mass does not affect the period of the pendulum is because force and mass are both proportional. as one increases in size so does the other. therefore, as the mass increased, so does the forces which includes acceleration which makes the period the same no matter what the mass. the conclusion for the affect of mass on a period is that mass does not affect the period of a pendulum.

	the affect that angle of release is clearly shown in graphs 3 and 6. graph 6 however, includes the error bars which show the effect of angle of release to be very little to none as shown by our graph. the reason angle of release does not affect the graph is because the lower or higher the angle of release is the less or more ground the bob must cover as it completes one period. the more ground the bob must cover, the more acceleration increases, and this accounts for the lower or higher distance it must cover. this shows that the angle of release does not affect a pendulums period because the greater the angle, the more acceleration which accounts for the higher distance the bob must cover. the conclusion for the affect of angle of release on a period is that angle of release does not affect the period of a pendulum.

	the affect of length on the period of a pendulum is shown on graphs 5,8, and 10 to name a few. graph 8 includes error bars which show the effect of length on the period. it shows that as the length increases, the period does as well. the longer the length of the string connected to the bob on the pendulum, the longer the period because the bob has to fall a greater distance and make up that distance on the other side of the middle of the pendulum. the equation we found was a power function $y=1.9935 x^{0.499}$ with an r^2 value of .9992. this shows that the model shown by the equation stated best fits the model almost perfectly. the conclusion is that the length of string affects the period of the pendulum in a linear positive manor because as the length of the string increases, the period of the pendulum increases as well.

	the first lab introduced us to the idea that the period of a pendulum can be affected by changing certain factors possibly being mass, angle of release, and length. we believed in lab 1 that all three factors were going to affect the period in a linear positive manor and i believe that is why we received the data we did was because we were expecting it to be that way. our hypothesis was wrong for lab 1 but we quickly rebounded and were back on track for lab 2. 

	the second lab addressed the idea of errors, specifically error bars. error bars show the range of uncertainty in a graph. our range of uncertainty was .02973 which is good. this helped us see that not all the graphs impacted the period because wherever the error bars cross a point, that shows the impact of the factor on angle of release. this showed us that mass as well as angle of release did not affect the graph, only length. 

	the third lab showed us that it is possible to create a mathematical model to show the relationship of the points on the graph. our mathematical model was $y=1.9935 x^{0.499}$. compared to the theoretical model, $t=\frac{2 \pi \sqrt{l}}{\sqrt{g}}$ the model we found was accurate. the coefficient in the first mathematical model came out to be 1.9935 whereas the coefficient in the second theoretical equation is 2.007. these two coefficients are close which is great in terms of having the perfect model showing the relationship between length and period of a pendulum. the model for the angle of release as well as for mass would have been a straight line compared to the theoretical model because both the angle of release and the mass do not affect the period. 

	a random error throughout all three graphs in lab 1 was that could not be fixed with the available equipment would be our reaction time as individuals. each reaction time would be different depending on if the person starts too early or late which would affect the overall results either making the periods too short or too long. another random error specifically for the length and angle of release graphs would be the human error as well. this would affect the measurements calculated by the naked eye. using a more precise form of measurement would be more efficient for these types of calculations, especially the angle of release. a few systematic errors in the labs would be the type of string or weights used in the experiment. the type of string used would affect the length ever so slightly depending on the material used to braid the rope. if nylon string is used, it will stretch around twice as much as string constructed of polyester. this would give the string more length which would increase the period but would be a constant increase across all the trials conducted. the random error of having time being monitored by human reaction time could be resolved with high-speed cameras or possibly to nullify the aspect of human reaction time, increase the amount of trials conducted. this is what we ended up doing in lab 3 to fix the random error of human reaction time. the more trials conducted will average out more of the data which would help lessen the effect of an outlier such as the one we calculated in the mass’s effect on the period of the pendulum. to fix the systematic error of the elasticity in the rope, specify what specific type of rope to use and what material it is constructed of. 

	a few constraints throughout the experiment were the height of the table, the amount of mass we had, and the time constraints. the effect of the height of the table limited our length and the amount of trials we could conduct. another thing that limited the amount of trials we could conduct was the mass of the bob. the range of mass of the bob i felt was not enough to provide clear evidence of the effect of mass on the period of the pendulum. i would have liked to see a broader range of the mass to help show the effect on the period of the pendulum. the time constraint we had made the labs a little rushed because we had to finish all of the labs in approximately two hours which made it so if you had to redo a couple of data points in any of the possible factors that affected the period of the pendulum, you would be very close to running out of time. these all affect the generalizability of the results because rushed data, non-accurate data, and the tightly grouped points made the graphs a possible place for error among the groups. the generalizability of the results only makes it so they can apply to engineering. they show the effect of length on the period of a pendulum which could affect the period of a grandfather clock or the pace of a metronome making either longer or shorter depending on the length.