discussion and conclusion

this lab investigated the question of what impacts the period of a pendulum.  experimentally, this was investigated by testing three factors believed to potentially affect the period of a pendulum is  the length of the pendulum, the mass of the pendulum, and the angle at which the pendulum was dropped.

the length of the string of the pendulum was first tested for its effect upon the period.  the mass of the pendulum and the angle of drop were held constant at 50 g and 60° from vertical, respectively (table 1), while the length of the string was increased by 10 cm from 20 cm for five trials.  figure 1 resulted from the data collected, and it was concluded that not only was there a positive correlation between string length and length of period, but that since the error bars had little to no overlap between their uncertainty, the change in length of period string conclusively impacted the period of the pendulum.  this was corroborated when further testing was conducted with the photogate sensor, which provided more accurate timing of the periods.  the data collected from these trials also presented a positive correlation between string length and length of period as well as error bars so small that they did not overlap in any circumstance, as seen in figure 2.  thus, as string length increases, period increases.

mass was tested for its impact upon the period of a pendulum, while the length of the string and angle of drop were held constant at 30 cm and 60° from vertical, respectively, as seen in table 2.  the mass amounts were increased by 20 g from 50 g for five trials.  as seen in figure 3, the data of these trials present little to no correlation, and because of the distinct overlap of the error bars, there was no conclusive change in the length of the period as a result of the change in mass.  therefore, it was concluded that mass does not impact the period of a pendulum.

angle of drop was tested for its impact on the period of a pendulum with the length of the string held constant at 30 cm and mass held constant at 50 g (table 3), while the angle was increased by 15° from 30° from vertical for five trials.  the data from these trials, as seen in figure 4, appeared to present a positive correlation between angle size and length of period, which initially seemed plausible, as the larger the angle of drop, the longer the distance the pendulum must travel.  however, because the error bars of this graph have a significant overlap, it cannot be determined that the angle of drop affects the period length of a pendulum.  as a result, it was concluded that the angle of drop does not affect the period of a pendulum.

the known theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is , where t is the period in seconds, l is the length of the pendulum in meters, and g is the acceleration due to gravity in meters per seconds squared.  this equation can be rearranged to reflect a power equation when substituting 9.8 m/s2 for gravity is  .  when comparing this equation of figure 2,  our data fits this model extremely well, thus supporting the theoretical model.  as shown in figures 3 and 4, both the mass and angle of drop present a relatively linear model and do not resemble that of the theoretical model of the period of a pendulum.  regardless, the theoretical model only takes into account that of the length of the pendulum, so it should not be expected that either the mass or the angle of drop would resemble the theoretical model.  therefore, both the data collected from the mass and the angle of drop do not support the theoretical model.

random error was present in this lab through the fact that humans were dropping the pendulum, potentially causing the drop angle to be larger or smaller than was intended.  likewise, a human reaction to starting and stopping the stopwatch may have caused the timing to be larger than was actually the case.  future testing of the lab may reduce this error by using a means to hold the pendulum in the desired position where it can be released at the exact angle without having a possibility of hand movement.  a motion sensor timer would help eliminate any reaction time differential, as was used to collect the data in figure 2.  random error also stemmed from the oscillation of the metal frame on which the string was attached when heavier masses were used and from sideways oscillation of the pendulum during any drops greater than 60°.  these two factors could be reduced through the use of a sturdier frame and a guide to maintain a strictly forward to backward motion of the pendulum.

systematic error was present through air resistance and friction between the string and its attachment to the metal frame.  these could be reduced by conducting trials in a vacuum and by using surfaces that have lower coefficients of friction.  systematic error is also present in the fact that the measuring devices used could only measure to a certain level of accuracy, which could be reduced through the use of more accurate measuring devices.  this was also partially reduced when using the photogate sensor that could provide more accurate timing of the period that it sensed.

time appears to be a constraint that may have limited the generalizability of our data.  though it was first desired to conduct many more trials for each test condition, the limiting time factor of the length of our lab period caused a decision to reduce the amount of trials so that all test conditions could be experimented.  as a result, we had a much smaller set of data upon which to make generalizations.  furthermore, we were limited by the amount of string, space, and masses we had available to test for longer string lengths and higher weights.  this then limited our generalization to only the span of string and amount of weight we had available for our use.