conclusion:
	RESEARCH QUESTION: What impacts the period of a pendulum
Discussion of three experiments included above as well as claims, conditions, and references to the graphs and data tables
Theoretical Model for the period of a pendulum is  $y=2 x^{0.5}$
This is the theoretical model that fits very closely to the data that we collected in experiment 3.  The equation that we came up with was $y=2.069 x^{0.4213}$ this is very accurate and shows that the method we used of the laser counter was much more accurate than any other timing method we used.  We compared our resulting calculation of the line to that of other groups in our class and determined that our numbers were a little closer to the theoretical model than theirs, however they were still similar for example 2.069 vs 2.989 (found from group two).
There were not really many systematic errors besides possible errors from the laser counter, however the results were all extremely accurate, so the systematic errors were most likely not worthy of noting.  Random errors on the other hand are much more possible and include things such as not 100% accuracy in measuring drop height and drop angle as well as not dropping in a straight line and accidently releasing at a diagonal path.  Random errors of timing are also one of the main errors that likely occurred.  In order to fix these errors, we used a white board to help us see when the pendulum completed a full period on our phones and timing it with multiple devices.  We also had multiple people verify the drop height and angle every time before each drop, in order to reduce error by having multiple inputs.  Finally, in experiment three we got much more accurate as we used the laser counter which produced extremely accurate times and greatly decreased random error.  In the future, we could have a more accurate way to measure drop height every time instead of having to virtually eyeball it as well as the drop angle.
Possible constraints that could limit generalizability of our results are that we did not have the time to do as many tests as we would have liked so we don’t have as much data as we could have possibly had.  Another constraint is that our equipment was very limited and we did not have extremely accurate ways to measure certain aspects of the design.