conclusion:
To reiterate, the question of this lab was, “What affect the period of the pendulum?” Each of the experiments gave insight as to what variable affects the length of the period of the pendulum. With lab 1, a general idea could be gathered as to what affects the period of the pendulum. As seen on the graphs (Figures 3-9), the correlation between length of the string and length of the period are related. However, the error bars overlap far too much to show any true indication that the data is accurate enough to conclude that there is a correlation between string length and period length. The same can be said about the accuracy of the data with the change in angle and mass. The error bars overlap significantly (Figures 6-9), although the data does give the indication that there is no relationship between the starting angle of the pendulum and the mass. However, it cannot be definitively proven that there is such a conclusion. 
The theoretical mathematical model that was found from plotting multiple data points into Excel as seen in Figure 1. These points were then calculated to fall along a trendline that has the equation $T=0.1195726 L$ with an R2 value of 0.999, meaning that the data trendline almost exactly falls on this line also meaning that it is extremely accurate. This data comes from that in Figure 2 and is graphically displayed in Figure 1. This equation is similar to other groups that were asked what their equations were, for example $T=0.095893 L$ and T is 0.3702L0.3914. The actual theoretical mathematical formula is $T =0.201*L^{0.5}$ when converted from meters to centimeters. This shows that our equation was very close to the actual theoretical mathematical equation. The factors such as weight and starting angle did not give equations that were remotely like these. They all returned as linear with no real correlation or indication as to what would be a proper equation to fit with the data. This is also the case because the error bars were both large and overlapped significantly, indicating that the true value of the data could be significantly off and would not give accurate equations. This is not the case with the graph of figure one, as the error bars are so small that they cannot be seen on the given normal graph. This gives the impression that the data is accurate as to where they are located and therefore validate the equation given from Excel.
Errors present throughout the lab did affect data from Lab 1, but these were reduced significantly in the final stage at Lab 3. These errors included, inaccuracies by measuring time based off of sight, inaccuracies in measurement of string length, inaccuracies in the measure of starting angle and any dust or air particles that would collect on the weights. The inaccuracy of the timing was practically eliminated as a result of using the simulation in Lab 2 and the laser timer in Lab 3. This made the accuracy of the timing of the period much more precise, as it is a multitude of times more improved over simple hand timing, as seen by the error bars (or lack thereof) in Figure 1.
One major constraint on the generalization of the results was the time in which the labs could be completed. An extremely large sample of data would be better suited in order to get a better generalization from this experiment. Given the time to complete the labs, the biggest constraint is time to test more lengths of string, different variations in mass of the weight and more angles. This leads into another limiting constraint of the amount of weight that was able to be used. A larger variation in weight would allow a larger amount of data to be drawn upon so that it can be affirmed that for larger weights that they may have or not have an effect on the period length. Another limiting constraint is that the precision of the tools that were issued allowed for error to occur. As seen with Lab 1, the largest occurrence of this kind of error having an effect was in the hand timing. This leads to a conclusion that since the variable of period angle was measured by eye and hand there was room for error to occur more easily than if it was measured in a manner similar to having the accuracy of a laser timer linked to the computer.
