discussion: 

	the purpose of this lab was to create a mathematical model to analyze the relationship between the force of the hanging and the acceleration of the system. we also analyzed how other forces (like tilt of the ramp and friction) also known as the physical setting of the lab impacted the acceleration. the theoretical models of the 3 experiments are is  $a=c1 m1^{-1}$ for the power fit trendline and $a=c1 f+c2$ for the linear fit. the m represents the mass, the c(1) represents the slope, and c(2) represent the other forces that impacted the acceleration. the a represents the acceleration (m/s^2). 

	the first experiment involving the relationship between the force of the hanging and the acceleration of system while the system’s mass is held constant gave us a mathematical model of $a=0.102 f_{hanging} -2e^{-17}$ is derived from the graph. this is a linear equation meaning that the trendline in graph 1 was linear. the r^2 value of the graph 1 is exactly 1, so that means that our all our data values were hit by the trendline giving us a very accurate mathematical model. the 0.102 is the force of hanging calculated by taking the mass of the hanging and multiplying it by gravitational constant which is 9.8. the error bars also do not overlap in graph 1 meaning that none of the values are the same. the graph shows a positive correlation between the force of the hanging and the acceleration. for the second experiment regarding the relationship between the mass of the cart and the acceleration while the mass of the hanging was held constant, the mathematical model came out to be $a=0.8758 f_{cart}^{-0.942}$. this equation is derived from graph 2, where the trendline is a power line. this mathematical model is accurate because graph 2 r^2 value is 0.99, which is very close to 1 meaning that almost all our obtained data points were hit by the trendline. the 0.88 value represents the gravitational force acting on the cart and the         -0.942 represents the a constant in the theoretical equation. the closer this value is to -1, the better our results. the error bars do not overlap meaning that no two values are the same, and they are all significant. the third experiment wanted us to test how the physical setting of the lab impacted the acceleration of the object. we were testing for the extra forces like friction and the effect of gravity on the tilt of the ramp. the c(1) in this experiment represents the force divided by the total mass of the system. therefore, with graph 3,4,and 5 we can get the c(1) values for all the trials. the c(1) values are 2.45, 2.50, and 2.52 respectively. and the c(2) values which are the other forces acting on the system are calculated to be -.0018,-.2037, and -.102 respectively. all three of the graph have a linear trendline, meaning that the second theorrtical model applies to this situation. the r^2 values for all three of these graph are close to 1, meaning that our mathematical model are accurate. 


	group 3 tested the same hypothesis as us and came up with the same conclusion. they were tested the tilt of the ramp at different heights just like us. their prediction was that the acceleration will decrease as the tilt increases. they also had a r^2 value that was close to 1, so most of their data values fell in the best fit line. this indicates that their mathematical model is accurate. this leads us to conclude that the tilt is an extra force but it does impact the acceleration of the system. because we had multiple trails with tilt and the other group came up with similar conclusions, we can say that we were confident with our hypothesis. group 5 had a different factor to test, they were testing the frictional force. their conclusion was that as friction increases the acceleration of the system will decrease. this force will also go into our mathematical model as the “other force.” comparing these hypothesis with other groups helped us understand that c(1) is the gravitational force that is always present, and the c(2) is the other force that needs to accounted for in order to understand the acceleration of the system. 

	several errors could have impacted our mathematical model. systematic error could include the photogate not working properly. even though we accounted for the uncertainty, an error with the photogate can lead to a shift in our results giving us a different mathematical model. we can reduce this systematic error by taking data with different photogate, and doing the same experiment to see if we get similar results or not. if we get similar results, then the photogate are accurately showing the values, but if we don’t we can conclude that the photogate not working properly. another error could be random because the mass on the cart and the hanging could be miscalculated. we experienced this error in the lab because we were not counting the bobs properly on the hanging and the cart, but we caught this error before we messed up the entire experiment. if we hadn’t, our values obtained could have differed significantly resulting in a wrong mathematical model. we can fix this error in the future by planning ahead on how much mass to put on the hanging and the cart so that we know exactly what to do when we do the experiment. 

	one constraint in this experiment that may limit the generalizability of the our results is air resistance. in order to eliminate this constraint we would have to perform the experiment in a highly controlled environment where no air expect the one from the machine was impacting our result. other forces like friction and angle can also impact our results even through they were accounted for in the mathematical model. these forces could impact the acceleration. 

	newton’s second law states that $f= m a$. the mass is the mass of the hanging and the acceleration is for the object that is moving in the same direction. the force accounts for the gravitational force in this case. as we saw in all the graphs, the force of the hanging is directly proportionate. so as the mass of the object increases, the more force the object needs to accelerate in the same directions. this experiment shows that newton’s second law holds correct as we got similar results as theoretical results of newton’s second law.