discussion and conclusion:

	in this experiment we tested which factors influence the period of a pendulum. the three independent variables tested were the mass of the pendulum, the length of the string, and the angle the pendulum was dropped from. 

	the first experiment measured the mass at the end of the pendulum. it seems logical that a heavier pendulum would swing fast, as heavier objects on earth tend to fall faster. in a vacuum, however, all things accelerate due to gravity at the same rate, lighter objects are more impacted by air resistance from our atmosphere which make them fall slower. air resistance is negligible in our experiment, so each pendulum having the relatively same period regardless of weight as seen in figure 1 and table 1 is to be expected. the second variable test was the drop angle of the pendulum. this variable also intuitively seems like it would impact the period, but we found it did not. this is due to the fact that even though the pendulum has a further distance to travel, it accelerates due to gravity for a longer time before it is decelerated due to gravity. because of this, the period was virtually unaffected by the drop angle as shown in figure 2 and table 2. the final variable being tested was the length of the pendulum string. this is the only variable we found that impacted the period, as shown in figure 3 and table 3. given that this is the only variable present in the equation for the period of a pendulum, this is a valid conclusion. a longer string length creates a significantly further distance the pendulum must travel to get back to its original position.

	the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is . the function we found for our data is . these models are very close to each other. a sample calculation with a 2 meter string gives a value of 2.841s with our model and 2.837s with the accepted model. plotting the theoretical model would display a graph very similar to the one found in figure 4. mass and drop angle are not included in our model or the theoretical model, but acceleration due to gravity is included in the theoretical model. it makes sense that we were not able to find that as a variable as we cannot test pendulums on other planets with different g values. 

	the biggest error that would have affected our data was random error present in manually starting and stopping the stopwatches. other errors could be an incorrect measuring tape, an incorrect protractor, or incorrectly massed weights. these would be systematic errors as they are constants and would result in values all lower than the expected value or all higher than the expected value. to reduce the stopwatch error we had all 4 group members take the time of the period with a stopwatch and we averaged the values. in lab 3, we used the photogate system which made timing errors negligible as they were calculated with a computer and a laser. 

	we were constrained in the length of the strings we could test. our maximum string length was around 1.5 meters. extrapolating this to pendulums with string lengths may cause problems as air resistance starts to become a factor. another constraint is not being able to test with other g values as we are limited to earth.