conclusion:
So looking at the other teams experimental values we can finally see the pattern and make a detailed explanation of what is going on here. In the force and motion lab, we actually got to see newtons 2nd law in action. Our team decided that to test newton's 2nd law by testing the friction, mass and force of the system vs acceleration of the system. So for every model we tested we did so at least five times to see what would happen when you changed either mass of an object, force on a object and friction on a object and see how it affects the acceleration of a system. After the experiment we did  see that when you apply increased force it increases the acceleration of the system and when you increase the mass of the cart you decrease the acceleration of the system. When you increase the friction on the cart you would decrease the acceleration of the system. But you have to keep all the other variables constant and  Newton’s 2nd law shows us the meaning to our data because if you plug in our forces and masses into $f=m a$ correctly corresponding to the experiment done and solve for acceleration, you will get very similar accelerations to what we found from our data on excel. We did not see any differences between our experimental values and Newton’s 2nd law. Although the equation makes sense, the graphs are different because one is inversely related, the other is linear, and the last one is positively correlated. This is due to when you change the equation $f=m a$ around, that changes the way the graph looks.Linear is  $a = \frac{f}{m}$ of MC (When force increases over a constant number, that resultant outcome would be greater.)(Just like the graph of $y = x$ since what you are dividing by is constant it doesn’t affect the linear graph to change exponentially.) Inversely graph is  $a = \frac{f}{m}$ of MC (When force is constant and the mass of MC increases, this makes the fraction smaller resulting in the acceleration decreasing.)(Just like the graph of $y =\frac{1}{x}$) I believe that this is so because in Newton’s 2nd law deals with Mass and Force, and friction being that the acceleration of an object increases with force, decreases with mass, decreases with friction and is the same directions as the net force. The general form of Newton’s second law connects the net force on an object with the rate of change of the quantity. An object’s momentum is the product of its mass and its velocity. Momentum is a vector, pointing in the direction of the velocity. Is equal to . so this equals 3.299, compared to our actual value of 2.8703 this is reasonably far away. Which makes sense because we forgot to keep our mass of the system the same. We just took the bobbers off instead of putting them on the cart So the value that we got for was .0378 but the actual value was -0075, which means that we had some random error the first time, maybe some type of friction on it or a tilt on the track. Tilt is a variable that we did not account for that could possibly affect the acceleration of our system. But other teams investigated it by controlling for other factors, and changing the tilt of the track to see if it has an effect on the acceleration of the system, and the research question was how does the tilt of the track impact acceleration of the system? We saw a very minimal decrease in the acceleration of the system, so it could affect the experiment if the track was not checked before the student starts the experiment. so to wrap it all up we now know that the friction, force. gravity, and mass all affect the acceleration of the system. Also the mathematical equation for this is $F=m a$ and that is it is true for newton's 2nd law.
