discussion and conclusion:

	the research question that is being answered in this experiment is, will mass, length of string or the angle of release have an effect on the period of a pendulum? in order to come to a conclusion, multiple experiments were performed in order to test our hypotheses that each of these variables would in fact have an impact on the period of the pendulum. each variable was tested separately in their own experiments. 

the first experiment that was performed was testing the variable of mass, versus the period of the pendulum. it was predicted that the mass on the pendulum would impact the period of the pendulum. five trials took place with this experiment using different values of mass in grams, while keeping the string length and angle of release as constant as possible. from these trials data was gathered, shown in table 2 and then placed into figure 1. from this information, our claim is shown to be incorrect. the mass of the pendulum does not have an impact on the period of the pendulum. we can conclude this because the graph shows no positive or negative correlation between the mass on the pendulum and the period. 

	the second experiment that was performed was testing the variable of length of string versus the period of the pendulum. it was predicted that the length of the string would have an impact on the period of the pendulum. five trials took place with this experiment using different lengths of string in centimeters, while keeping the mass and angle of release as constant as possible. from these trials data was gathered, shown in table 4 and then placed into figure 2. ten more trials took place and this data was gathered, shown in table 5 and then placed into figure 3. from this information, our claim is shown to be correct. the length of string on the pendulum will have an impact on the period of the pendulum. we can conclude this because the graph in figure 2 and figure 3 shows a positive correlation between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum. also, in figure 3 it is shown that there are very few outliers from the trend line that was created. 

	the third experiment that was performed was testing the variable of angle of release versus the period of the pendulum. it was predicted that the angle of release would have an impact on the period of the pendulum, the greater the angle of release, the greater the period of the pendulum. five trials took place with this experiment using different angles of release of 30 degrees or fewer, while keeping the other variables of length of string and mass as constant as possible. from these trials data was gathered, shown in table 6 and figure 4. from this information, our claim is shown to be incorrect. the angle of release will not have an impact on the period of the pendulum. we can conclude this by looking at figure 4. in figure 4, while the graph does seem to be increasing with each data point, there is no distinct pattern that would show that there is any type of correlation between the angle of release and the period of the pendulum.

	in lab 03, we learned that the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ or $y=1.99 x^{0.5}$. the equation received from our experiment was $t=2.0463 x^{0.4234}$. from our equation shown in figure 3, it can be noticed that our coefficient number is off by 0.0563 and our exponent is off by 0.0766. these values show that our data collected is slightly off from the theoretical values, however, they are still very close making our data reliable. the information gathered by comparing the equations is also shown by looking at the graphs in figures 1-4 as discussed earlier. figures 1 and 4 that showed graphs for variable that did not impact the period of the pendulum can also be shown by using this equation. if we were to calculate an equation for these graphs, the coefficient and exponent numbers would vary greatly from those in the theoretical equation. 

	with any experiment, there is always a chance for error, systematic and and/or random. some of the random errors that could have occurred include; delayed reaction for start/stop time on stopwatch, inaccurate measurements gathered from the tape measurer, and inaccurate measurements from the protractor. some of the systematic errors that may have occurred include; an uncalibrated scale and measuring the period from the release point rather than the middle of the period. while many of the random errors are caused by human error and cannot be fixed, there is a way to fix the systemic errors. we were able to correct one of these errors by performing more trials where the period of the pendulum was calculated from the middle of the period rather than the release point. when redoing the experiment, calibrating the scale might not be able to be fixed to perfection, however, the scale could be recalibrated prior to each measurement to ensure a more accurate reading.   

	when performing this experiment, there was a restraint that was felt to limit the information we were able to gather. the angle of release had to be done under 30 degrees due to the equipment we had available and the environment we were in. if there was more freedom with this, it is possible that we may have received different data based off of larger angles of release.