discussion and conclusion:

	in the three pendulum labs, the question being investigated is, what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? the first experiment investigated the impacts of the period of the pendulum by testing three different independent variable, length of the string, mass of the bob, and the release angle of the pendulum.  each independent variable was tested at three different lengths, masses, or release angles while other variables were held constant. four stop watches were then utilized to measure the time it took to complete three periods of a pendulum and then were averaged and divided by three to find the time it took for one period to take place. the averages of two trials were then graphed without error bars to determine whether there was a relationship between the independent variables and the time it took to complete one period. in figure 1, the graph appeared to be sloping upward depicting that there may be the relationship that as length increases the period of the pendulum increases. in figure 3 graph of the mass versus the period, the data points were almost linear depicting that there may not be a relationship between the mass of the bob and the time it takes to complete period. when adding the linear slope to the it was found that -0.0001 which is close to having no slope or no relation when different masses were tested. lastly, in figure 4 where the angle versus the period was graphed, it was found to have similar results as the mass graph where all of the points were almost the exact same creating a slope of 0.002 depicting that there was not a relation between the small angles measured and the time it took to complete one period of the pendulum.

	the second experiment investigated the relationships of the three independent variables relationships with the period by revaluating the first experiment results and accounting for the error that took place. this was done by adding vertical standard error bars to each of the graphs and determining whether they have a relationship based on if the bars overlap. in figure 3 with the mass of the bob and period, the vertical error bars between the first two data points cross depicting that there cannot be a relationship by the data points because they fall within the error. the first and last point also have error bars that cross demonstrating that a relationship cannot be concluded by the data because they fall within two standard deviations of each other, so they could be the same point without error.  the same can be found with figure 4, the angle versus period graph where the error bars of each of the three data points overlap meaning that it cannot be concluded that there is a relationship between the small angles and the period of the pendulum. in figure 1. graph of length versus period, the error bars for the first two lengths overlap meaning there cannot be a relationship concluded from the two points. however, the error bars between the second and third lengths do not cross each other on the graph meaning it can be concluded that there may be a relationship between the length of the string and the time it takes to complete one period.

	experiment three extended on the only relationship between and independent variable and dependent variable found, the length of the string and the period. in this experiment, a photogate was utilized to reduce error to +/-  0.001 accuracy for measuring the time it takes to complete a period. ten different lengths were then tested to determine if length affects the period and if so, how the length affects the period. in figure 2 the length versus the period of the pendulum using a photogate, there was a linear, positive sloped relationship between the independent variable, length, and the dependent variable, period. the slope was 1.1424 which means that its positive and that the time it takes to complete one period is longer when the length of the pendulum is longer. also, the error bars for figure two are extremely small due to the accuracy of the photogate, so the error bars between data points did not cross depicting that it can be concluded that there is a relationship between the length of the string and time it takes to complete a period. the mathematical model determined by the linear slope with a high r-square value is $t=1.1424 l + 0.8104$ where l is length and t is time.

	the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, where p is the period, l is the length, and g is gravitational force of the earth. although the theoretical model is not a linear relationship, the mathematical model found above still fits for all but the first point which does not match the rest of the data set. in table 3, the data points measured by the experiment and the data points found utilizing the theoretical model. all values seen are almost identical to those found using the model except for the first measured value which indicates there must have been error on that trial. with the values being almost the same it depicts that the models work, and the length of the string does affect the pendulum with both tests. in the theoretical model, although it does not have specific coefficients for the mass or the angle like the mathematical model found, it still is factored in with the gravitational pull of the earth for the mass and the 2π for the rotation of the angle. the factors of the angle and mass of the bob may not directly affect the time it takes to complete one period of the pendulum, but their quantities are accounted for and still matter in order for the operation of the pendulum to occur.

	within the three labs there were many random errors, and some systematic errors that occurred and were reduced as the experiments went on. random errors that occurred included starting the timer slightly before or after the pendulum is released, stopping the timer slightly before or after the pendulum completes is period, watching the pendulum from different angles, not having enough trials independent variable measurements, and the pendulum wobbling instead of moving straight forward and backwards. systematic errors that could have occurred were not taking into account the strings tension/stretchiness or measuring the center of mass always to high or low. some random errors were reduced throughout the experiment by utilizing a photogate which could more accurately measure the time of one period, within +/- 0.001 s, to eliminate the error of user delay of using a timer. also, in experiment three, more lengths were taken in order to have better results and to better depict the relationship of the length and time of one period. this eliminated any errors causing overlap in the data points error bars or not accurately depicting the relationship if data points were measured incorrectly. the systematic error of measuring to high or low on the center of the bob as the center mass was reduced by measuring the middle line and connecting the end of the tape measure there so that the measurements did not result too high or too low. in experiment three not all error was reduced due to the first point being far off meaning the sensor did not detect the pendulum or the pendulum missed going into the photogate. this systematic error of the sensor not detecting the pendulum when it initial went through, depicts that error can always be reduced but even with technology there can be some present. it is impossible to reduce all error, but by doing more trials, having a more accurate sensor, finding a measurement point and making the pendulum follow a straight through the sensor reduces a majority of the error.

	constraints that may limit the generalizability of the results found were the factor of air resistance not be taken account for as, air resistance would lead to friction that would slow down the pendulum as more periods occurred causing slight variations in measurements. also, the tension/stretchiness of the string was not taken into factor, so the sting could have gotten more worn between the experiments causing different the same lengths to have different periods. also, in the mathematical model found the group could not add the 2π or gravity to the equation because it was not known how the linear equation could be turned into the exponential theoretical equation.