Conclusion:
The purpose of Lab 05 is to develop mathematical models which represent a real-life situation, being the effects of mass and magnetic force on the acceleration of a cart. The purpose of Lab 06 is to understand the meaning behind these models, and the relevance of each part.
The data collected from Lab 05 and its resulting models presents two different conclusions regarding the effects of the variables on acceleration. The Force exerted on the cart by gravity has a direct correlation to the acceleration of the cart, meaning the acceleration increases as the force increases, which is supported by the model. The resulting model for the mass-acceleration graph shows a decreasing slope, which is comparable to the likes of a 1/x graph. This is supported by the model, which can also be written as 1/(108504m^(1.348)). The resulting graph and model from Lab 06 show a directly correlated relationship between acceleration and magnetic force.
Group 1 tested the same variables as us, which showed a different result. Our whiteboard (pictured previously) shows that the acceleration of the cart increased as the magnetic force increased, while Group 1 claims that the increase in magnetic force causes a decrease in acceleration, depicted by their models. Group 3 tested the acceleration of the cart based on the angle of incline which it travels down, which shows an increase in acceleration as the height of the incline increases. 
Possible sources of error in these experiments include an uncalibrated scale, underpowered compressor, and an inconsistent pully. The uncalibrated scale could cause inaccurate measurements in a systematic error of one direction, either weighing too little or too high. The underpowered compressor can cause some friction to occur between the track and cart, which would also be systematic. The inconsistent pulley is more likely random error due to the way the string travels through the pulley. The pulley could have a sticky point, causing the measurements to be slightly inaccurate, but can be accounted for by running more trials and averaging the results.
Constraints on the experiments would include the force of gravity being extremely difficult to change because it is impractical to travel to space for these tests. The provided compressor is also another constraint because it could be underpowered and cause error.
Newtons Second Law states that the Sum of all forces in the system is equal to the Mass of the system multiplied by its acceleration. This can be rearranged from $F_{net} = m a$ to $\frac{F_{net}}{m} = a$, allowing for a formula to determine the acceleration. This is consistent with our experiments because our trials take all forces acting on the system into consideration which can then be divided by the mass of the system to find the acceleration, which is also represented by our models.