discussion and conclusion

	the research question being tested in this experiment is what impacts the period of pendulum most, length of pendulum, angle of elevation, or mass of pendulum? in all the experiments, i used the same dependent variable of, time of period(s). in the mass experiment our independent variable was mass (g). i increased the mass every trial and recorded the time of period, keeping the length of string and angle of elevation constant. in the angle experiment, i used different angles (independent variable) and recorded the time of period, while keeping the mass and string length constant. lastly, in the length vs time experiment my independent variable was the length (m) and recorded the time of period while keeping constant the mass and angle of pendulum dropped.

 	after testing all three variables for the experiment, i have come to conclude that the only correlation shown in the experiment was the length of pendulum vs time. this means that there was no correlation between the angle of elevation or mass of pendulum vs time. the mass vs time graph shows no correlation. if you refer to graph 3 you can see as it shows a linear line thus proving that the time was not significantly different.  if you refer to graph 2 you can tell that there as well was no correlation no correlation once again, was shown by a linear line across the graph. you can also see that both graph when looking for their error bars, the error bars were not significant enough to be shown in the graphs thus further proving that no correlation was shown throughout those experiments. however, in graph 1, the length of pendulum vs time graph there is clear correlation between the two variables. this is shown since a power graph was shown. when i found the theoretical mathematical model for the period of pendulum it came to be 1.99x0.4206 . my data fits this curve because when calculating my mathematical model, i got the equation of 2.0395x.0518. 

	these two models are significantly close showing me  that we found correlation between the two variables and there could potentially be a systematic or random error in our experiment. to reduce these errors in the future you could have a device that measures out and records the time elapsed between periods. this way there are no systematic errors made on the human side of the experiment. this could also double as a constraint in the experiment that could limit the generalizability of my results.