discussion and conclusion

before attempting lab 01, my team came up with the research question which asked is  “does the length of a string, angle of drop, or mass of an object affect the period of a pendulum?”

as the group set up each of the three experiments, we had to make sure that the research question was addressed properly. for the first experiment, we questioned whether the angle of the drop would affect the period of a swing. originally, my team thought that the angle of the drop would have the most significant affect on the period of each swing; however, we were proven wrong. graph 1 shows the results of our tests, and as you can see, there was little to no correlation between the period of a swing and the angle of a drop because of the horizontal linear representation. another tell-tale sign that there was no correlation can be seen by looking at the r-squared value. the r-squared values is equal to 0.42, which is far from a correlation representation. if the results showed a relationship, the r-squared value would have been closer to 1.0 than to 0.

the next test is  period versus length of the string also addressed our research question. the group figured that the length of the string had no affect on the period of the swing. graph 2 conveys the data that was retrieved after the experiment was over. from the graph, we can conclude that there was a strong correlation between the length of a string and the period of one swing. once again, the r-squared value can prove that there was a strong correlation because of its value of 0.96, which was very close to 1.0.

lastly, we experimented with the mass of the object. our team figured that a higher mass would take longer to complete the swing than a very small mass. based on the results found in graph 3, we concluded that there was absolutely no correlation between the mass of an object and the period of a swing because of the horizontal trendline that was created. the r-squared value is also 0, which further proves that the data shares no relationship.




theoretical model

	our team’s theoretical mathematical model focused on the period of a pendulum and the length of the string. graph 2 lead to the conclusion that the length of the string clearly affects the period of one swing. because of this conclusion, we used the photogate to determine whether our results were correct. the data is represented in the following table and graph is 
this data fits very well with the data that was collected by just using the stop watches. the clearest reason for this relationship can be seen by the r-squared value. the r-squared value of graph 2 and graph 4 are practically the same. also, the same linear relationship is represented in both graphs. we can also use graph 4 to prove what an actual relationship between the independent variable and dependent variable looks like. graph 1 and graph 3 look nothing like graph 4 in terms of a positive linear representation, which is why my team concluded that the mass of the object and angle of the drop had no affect on the period of the swing. once again, the r-squared values can be compared to further show that there is no correlation.
	systematic errors and random errors were recognized after we completed the first lab experiment. as a group, we decided that the systematic errors include the stopwatches not being stopped at different times, the angle of the drop not being measured correctly for each trial, and the string not being measured correctly. the main random error that we recognized involved the force applied at the release of the object. during some trials, we figured that the person releasing the object released in different ways, producing different forces, which would eventually alter the results. these errors could be resolved by using accurate instruments to measure the angle of the drop, the length of the string, and release the object at the same force. 
	the constraints of recreating the experiment for another student may relate to human error and the number of trials allowed per group. these were some of the main reasons why not every groups result looked the same. human error could be reduced by incorporating instruments that measure all aspects of the experiment for the students. a set number of trials may help reduce variability in the results so that the same concepts and results could be retrieved.