discussion and conclusion 

the purpose of the lab 05 was to develop mathematical models to show the behavior of the system when certain elements, mass 1 and mass 2, were changed and the others were kept constant. then, the purpose of lab 06 was to show how these numerical values in the mathematical model react and compare to external  stimuli in an actual lab setting.

the first experiment in lab 05 lead to the mathematical model $y=0.0027 x + 0.023$ by changing the mass of the hanging bob and recording the acceleration of the cart. after eight tests of increasing mass, the mathematical model comparing mass to the acceleration could be produced. the linear model accurately represents the data plotted on the graph, and can be confirmed by the r-squared value produced by the graph, 0.9993. the 0.0027 in the mathematical model represents another one of the constants in the experiment, the mass of the cart. the other constant, 0.0232, represents the small angle produced by the track not being completely flat. as for the variables, the x is mass and the y is acceleration. the second experiment in lab 05 lead to the mathematical model  $y = 0.998 e^{-0.002}$. this model was created to accurately model the system when the mass 1 was changed and the mass of the bob was kept constant. eight tests were conducted during this experiment to produce an accurate model. a exponential best fit line produced the best r-squared value, determining that this model is the most accurate in displaying the data. in this model, the x represents force, while y represents acceleration. the constants in this model represent the mass of the bob, 0.998, and the track not being completely level during the tests, -0.002. the final experiment produced a mathematical models to represent the force v acceleration when the angle of the track changes negatively and positively. the models for positive angles 0.3, 0.6, and 0.9 respectively are is  $y = 0.0028 x + 0.0115$, $y = 0.0028 – 0.0059$, and $y = 0.0028$ $y= 0.0204$. the models for the negative angles 0.3, 0.6, and 0.9 respectively are is  $y = 0.0027 x + 0.00391$, $y = 0.0028 x + 0.0541$, and $y = 0.0027 x + 0.0681$. for all of these models, x represents the force of the system while y represents the acceleration of the system. the constants closely resemble the first model, where the constant on the x represents the mass of the cart and the y intercept represents the small amount of friction still present in the system. after plotting all the data points on the graph, it can be determined these are the correct and accurate models due to the extremely large r-squared values for each of the mathematical models.


the mathematical models obtained from group #4 support our claims. group #4 used meters instead of centimeters, which is why their models represented contain different constants, but the overall model resembles the models created from the experiments.


the data presented from group #2 represented the change of friction of the cart on the system. since our experiments conducted tested the angle of the track on acceleration, the two data sets are not correlated and therefor do not support or contradict the results obtained from our experiments. 

throughout each of the three experiments, random and systematic errors may have occurred, skewing the obtained results from the expected results. one random error may have occurred if the cart was not drawn back exactly 600 cm. this may have given the system just enough time to gain more acceleration. this random error may have occurred throughout all three experiments since the distance was a global constant. another random error that may have occurred during the experiment in lab 06 was if the tiles used to change the angle of the track were not exactly even or to the exact width. this would cause the angles to change by fractions, but it might have had enough of an affect to impact the acceleration. finally, a systematic error that may have occurred involves measuring the bobs and the circle weights to change the mass of the system. the weights on the cart did not always measure out to be exactly what was printed on the weight. this means that either the mass of the weight was off, or the scale was inaccurate. if the scale was inaccurate, that means the masses of the bobs added to the end of the system would be off, changing the mathematical model. this is a systematic error due to the weights of the bobs being used in every experiment.

a constraint on the experiment is that the system was based on a frictionless surface. this means that the models only represent systems in this specific environment, which does not appear often in the real world/ experiments. another constraint is that the angle only went from 0 – 0.9. this means the mathematical models only represent tracks that fall within that angle range. 

the two mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law, the sum of forces is equal to msystem*a. in newton’s second law, the force is increased when the mass increases, as in they are directionally proportional. force is also directly proportional to mass in the mathematical models created. when the mass increases, the force of the system also increases.