conclusion:
lab 05 the purpose was to develop mathematical models which described the behavior of a real system and the purpose of lab 06 was to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value intended in the model. 
 The first experiment in lab 05 led to mathematical models based off recording varying weights of the system and then using the program on the computer provided to record the acceleration. Once we obtained the weight of the system (IV) and the acceleration (DV) over 8 trials, we were then able to produce a graph on Excel that would then provide us with the mathematical model. The mathematical model that was created was $y=0.1032 x^{1.35}$ with an R^2 value of 0.0182. These numbers are very off from the intended values. The y value corresponds to the acceleration (a) and the x value corresponds the force (N). For the second experiment in lab 05 we calculated the force of the system by taking the mass of the hanging weight and multiplying it by the force of gravity. This came out to be our independent variable (IV). Our dependent variable for the experiment was again the acceleration which was obtained by the program on the computer. After we obtained these two values after 8 trials, we were then able to produce an Excel graph which provided us with the mathematical model. Based off our results we obtained the model $y=2.7118 x + 0.012$ with R^2 value of 0.9977. The y value corresponds to acceleration (a) and x corresponds to the force (N). The value of 2.7118 comes about by taking the hanging weight mass and putting it under 1. The y-intercept value of 0.0126 is the difficulty the cart has accelerating down the track. It is extremely close to 0 which means the air track was almost perfectly flat and the cart had no issues accelerating. The sole experiment in lab 06 led to a mathematical model by creating an altered system that included creating an incline in the front of the air track which tilted it backwards. We tested this at three different inclines, those inclines being 9.5mm, 15.85mm, and 22.23mm. At each incline we took 8 trials which then helped us develop our graphs. We used the same method of obtaining the acceleration by using the program on the computer. Once we obtained our acceleration (DV) we could then create our graphs. From the graphs we came up with three mathematical models is  $y = 2.7539 x – 0.0482$ (9.5mm incline) with R^2 value of 0.9998, $y = 2.8031 x – 0.0838$ (15.85mm incline) with R^2 value 0.9996, and $y = 2.8402 – 0.1158$ (22.23mm incline) with R^2 value of 0.9986. The constant values in from of the represent the weight of the system under 1 and the y-intercept values represent the difficulty the cart has accelerating up the track. As the incline increased so did the y-intercept, which meant that the cart had a higher difficulty accelerating up the track.




No other groups in our lab tested the same hypothesis as us, so we are gathering information about a group (Group 4) that tilted their track forward which caused an initial increase in acceleration as soon as the air track was turned on. As their group added a higher tilt on the back of the track their positive C2 value increased. Since their C2 was positive and increased positively it played a factor in how fast it was able to accelerate. This helped contribute to our findings because their y-intercept also increased which meant that it was easier rather than harder for the cart to accelerate when their tilt in the back became higher. Their constant values also reinforced our findings because as their constant value also increased which indicated a higher system weight.

This group (Group 2) tested whether friction would affect the acceleration on the track. Based off their data the force of friction plays no effect in the acceleration. One thing that is noticeable in their data is that their C2 value increases negatively as they add more magnets. This means that it is harder for the cart to accelerate on the air track when the mass of the system increases. Their tested IV had a larger impact on the C2 value than ours did. This group added magnets so their system would weigh more which in turn made it more difficult to accelerate and it is evident in their y-intercept value. Their y-intercept value increased which meant that it was more difficult for the cart to accelerate.
 There were not many errors that could have affected the results in these experiments. One systematic error that could have been present was the inaccuracy of the scale when we weighed our system. This could have thrown off our values for system mass, which could then affect our mathematical model. A couple other random errors that could have skewed results are air resistance and the friction of the track. These two factors would slow down our acceleration which would also cause a smaller slope and smaller y-intercept of our mathematical models.
 A constraint that was evident in our experiments was the weight of our system and the number of bobs we were provided. We were only provided 8 bobs which did not allow us to test a higher hanging weight or a higher mass of the system. Another constraint that was evident was the length of the air track. If the air track was longer it there would have been a higher acceleration recorded which would have caused a spike in the constant and the y-intercept.
 Our mathematical models were consistent with Newton’s Second Law by manipulating the equation by solving for acceleration. In order to solve for acceleration, we had to divide by mass and then it resulted in $a = \frac{f}{m}$. Once we manipulated the equation we could then solve for acceleration (DV) which was the main goal of the experiments. An example of this is in experiment 2 of lab 05. We formulated the equation $a = 2.7118 N + 0.0126$ where we were solving for the acceleration by multiplying a constant by the force (N).
