conclusion and final summary: 

in this set of labs, we were testing to see what factors of a pendulum influence its period. among those factors include the angle, the mass, and the length of the pendulum. in each experiment we tested the factors by changing the factor being tested and using a set of constant variables to see if it truly affected the period. in the angle experiment, we kept the length of the pendulum the same and the mass the same while testing different angles multiple times. in the mass experiment, the length of the pendulum and the mass of the pendulum was the same. in the length experiment, the mass and the angle were kept constant. the theoretical model for a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, where 2π and g are constants and l equaling the length of the pendulum. according to this, on earth, we can only change the length of the pendulum in order to change the period of it. mass and angle do not affect it. this is exemplified in the data, by the graphs and their equations. in the length experiment, the slope was about .01, which in context to the scalars of centimeters and seconds, makes sense. in the mass and angle experiments, the slopes were -.008 and .005 respectively. these near zero slopes show that the angle and mass have no real effect on the pendulum’s period.   in the experiment, we tried to reduce the random error in the experiment by conducting multiple tests for each interval of the independent variable and having multiple people time the period of the pendulum to make sure that the data was somewhat consistent without a photogate. a lot of random error could have occurred with different reaction times from all the individuals involved. the only real systematic error that could have occurred is in the calculations or the experimental set up, which only during the lab records did my group make an error with one interpretations of the calculations, looking at the shape of the graph rather than the slopes. the main constraint of the experiment was the fact that we are on earth and cannot change the acceleration due to gravity, which would affect the period of the pendulum itself and allow use to have another independent variable to test. however, we can use the theoretical model to predict what the period would be in different environments with different gravities.