conclusion:  

research question: what factors affect the acceleration of a frictionless pulley system?

	throughout labs 05 and 06 we were testing whether factors such as hanging mass, mass of the system/mass on the cart, angle of incline for the pulley system and magnets have an impact on the acceleration of a cart on a frictionless track.  the experiment with the hanging weight as the independent variable showed that as the mass increased the acceleration increased.  in this experiment the error bars were too small to be seen on the graph and therefore the uncertainty is low enough to not be a problem.  the group that we switched with had similar data which supported our claim that the more mass added to the hanging weight the greater the acceleration.  the second group we switched with again had similar data which again proved that there was a positive correlation between mass added and acceleration.  the experiment with mass on the cart where the mass of the total system changed showed us that as weight was added to the cart, the acceleration decreases.  for lab 06, experiment 1, we compared how a greater backwards tilt affected acceleration.  we found that as the tilt was increased, the acceleration was decreased.  on the other hand, for the groups that did a forward’s tilt, the acceleration increased.  this is because the force from the hanging weight is working with the slope or against the slope in the case of the backwards tilt.  finally, for the groups that did the magnet trials, the more magnetic force added to the cart the lower the acceleration.  the negative correlation is because the magnetic force acts as friction which will work against the hanging weight.

	the theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system is acceleratio$n=c f + 2.0 c$.  our mathematical model supports this theoretical equation which was found to be $a=2.9057 f - 0.00211$.  the enhanced theoretical model for the acceleration of a system is .  our experimental mathematical model supports this theoretical model which is .

	in a scenario where there is a heavy string connecting the hanging weight to the cart the acceleration will increase exponentially since once more string goes towards the ground, the greater the downward force pulling the cart towards the pulley.  

	the error in the experiments were minimal since the computer was tracking the acceleration.  however, there may have been random error in the selection of data points on data studio.  to reduce this error, we selected a wider range of data points on the slope to account for outliers or just points that differ a little bit.  another random error could be in weighing the bobs.  to reduce this error, we made sure that the scale stopped moving and used our pencil to push the 10g part of the scale to get it exact. 

	constraints that we ran into were time and limited materials.  for time constraints we were only given one lab period which was two hours a week to run trials.  this caused the experiments to become rushed and not as many trials were able to be run as desired.  another constraint is the inconsistency in the bobs that were given.  each bob was a different weight which made us pay closer attention to which bobs were put on the hanging mass or the cart.  in this lab, each factor had a correlation, either positive or negative, depending on whether the iv was working with or against the hanging mass.