discussion and conclusion

the purpose of the labs is to develop mathematical models to describe the behavior of a real system as well as to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value included in model. 

the mathematical models that we determined from the data were n lab 5 were $y=0.0441 x - 0.071$ and $a=0.0441 m^2-0.0711$. the only factor that affected the acceleration of the cart that we tested was the weight distribution of a system. with more mass at m2, the acceleration was higher than with less mass at that point. the acceleration only increased when there was more mass on the m2 side which was moved from m1. we know for a fact that other factors do impact the acceleration of the cart but we did not have the time to test the other factors so, therefore, we can only state that as the mass of m2 increases which is taken from m1, the acceleration of the cart will increase with more mass on m2. after the completion of experiment 6, we concluded that when the hanging mass increases, the force applied increases, thus increasing the acceleration in a linear pattern. the graphs attached above show a linear relationship between acceleration and applied force, which supports our claim. the error bars for acceleration are too small to be visible on the graphs. the r^2 values were close to 1.0 and represented a linear relationship with their data sets. 
photo of another lab group’s whiteboard. they tested to see how the angle of the track affects acceleration. group 2
as shown above, the group twos conclusion is wrong because angle of track does affect the acceleration. group six’s results support our own because they too show that as the angle increases, the acceleration will as well. 
possible improvements to the experiment number five would be to have the rope attached to the cart and m2 not be knotted which would affect the rate at which the rope can proceed through the pulley. another way to improve the control variables would be to have the air track have an equal psi throughout the entire track. the further away from the source of air pressure on the track, the weaker the psi and the less force the cart gets pushed upwards which would increase the friction against the track with parts of the cart rubbing against the track. in experiment 6, there was a material flaw in our experiment. the slabs of steel we used to elevate the system were not perfect in width on all sides. this could affect the actual tilt we have measured. additionally, the applied force to cause a net change of acceleration might have had its own acceleration as it started up (as in, the air-blower used may not have had a perfect application of constant force). these are simple material edits to collect more accurate data. we could also use steeper incline changes, or perhaps use consistent incline changes to more easily interpret and analyze the data.
a few constraints were that we didn’t get to test all our variables and situations we wanted to. for example, in lab 5 a few factors that we think would affect the acceleration of a system would be the length of string used as well as the shape of the objects used. the length of string used could be tested using a longer string for the pulley attached to the cart as well as m2. a new research question would be how the acceleration of the system changes when the shape of the mass of m2 changes. there are a few more for experiment 6. some of these include mass and friction. friction has a negative (decreasing) pull on acceleration. similarly, the smaller the mass of something is, the faster it will accelerate given the same force applied. for example, if we wanted to test how mass affects the acceleration, then we would propose the following research question is  “if we increase the mass of the system, then the acceleration will decrease”.
newton’s second law can be rewritten as $a= \frac{f}{m_{sys}} = \frac{f1+f2+f3}{m_{sys}}$  and so on. adding more and more forces until there are none left. our general equation came out to have the form $a=c1 f+c2$. this compared to the aforementioned newton's law equation are fairly similar. they both contain force over mass written in different ways. if we isolate each piece in the equation, they both can be written as (1/(mass of system))*force. the c2 in our equation is a small little piece of mass which was a systematic variable in the experiment. newton's second law applies to a perfect word, which is what the universe is not.