conclusion:
the purpose of this lab was to develop multiple mathematical models that describe the behavior of a real system, and to understand what each variable mean, numerical value that is included in the model. 

	the way we found our mathematical model for the first experiment is first by starting with one bob on the end of the string, and the rest on the cart. then turning on the motor to find the acceleration of the cart. each time after that we would take one bob off the cart and add it to the hanging mass, and we kept finding the acceleration of the cart after we changed the hanging mass. we changed the mass into force then put the data our table. then we made a graph out of the table graph and got our equation which was $a=2.29329 f - 0.0057$. a represent the acceleration and f represent the force on the object, and the 2.292329 is the slope of the force. in the 2nd experiment. we kept only one bob at the end of the string, and just kept adding bobs to the cart, to see how that affect the acceleration. we calculated the acceleration the same as we calculated it in the first experiment by using the sensor, and we saw the relationship between the mass of the cart and the acceleration. then we graphed by using our data we found in this experiment to get the equation, which is $a=\frac{0.524}{m^{0.877}}$. a is acceleration, and m is the mass of the cart. 0.524 is how much the mass affected the acceleration.  for the last experiment we pretty much did the same thing but added friction to the equations by using magnets. our first trail we used zero magnets on the cart, 2nd time we added only half of the magnets to the cart, and lastly, we used all the magnets on the cart, and in each trail,  we started with one bob on the string and found the acceleration, then add another bob to the string and found the acceleration and so on and so on.  we graphed all our data and for each of the different type of friction we basely got the same mathematical model with is $a=-6.7595$. a mean the acceleration and fgn is the force with gn units. 2.0818 is the slope of the force. 

	to check our results, we looked at two other groups and compared out mathematical models with ours. here are there results is  
looking at their result we are confident in our mathematical model because it is really close to first group. in the 2nd group we are assuming that had an error in their data since their mathematical is so far off from ours and the 1st group. in the first group their slope was close to 2 just like ours. they had 1.836 for 2 magnets as we got 2.0818, as for the all 4 magnets they got 1.8801 as we got 1.978. 

	some systematic error that could have affected our data is the bob was being worn down because they were use so many times which could lower the mass of the bob, but ultimately would cause very small error. one way to fix this error is just buying new set of bobs. another systematic error is the magnets was old are worn out and it wouldn’t stick to the cart. so, we had to add tape, so the magnets wouldn’t fall off. so, this added more mass to the cart. we can improve this experiment by getting a different material of the cart, so the magnets would more likely stick to the cart without the need for tape.   

	constraints we are had in this experiment is our two experimental mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law because the equation we found is $a=c f + c$ in this equation c1 relates to the force which is 2.0818 in our equation and c2 represent -8.8413. to get into the $f=m a$ equation all we must do in rearranged the equation. so, if you divided by f on both side then just multiple a on both side then you will have the equation $f=m a$