Discussion and conclusion
What is impacting the period of the pendulum?
For each of the experiment that was carried out, we found that there is no correlation between the weight and the time it takes for the pendulum to make one full swing. You can see it initially increased and then decreased and increased again having no pattern on Figure 1. The other two variables that were tested, the length of the string and the angle of the release, were found out to have a correlation between the time of the pendulum swing. You can see on both the Figures 2 and 3 that the data points increased each time. We predicted for each of the variables, weight, string length and the angle of the release, that as they increase, so too does the time it takes for the pendulum to swing once. After the experiments, the result was that the weight does not seem to have any effect on the time it takes for pendulum to make a full swing while the length of the string and the angle of the release does which makes the predictions true for those two variables. On Figure 2.2, the error bars are farther in range for the time so there might be greater uncertainty. On the Figure 3.2, the error bars are closer in range for the time so there might fewer uncertainty. Since the weight did not have any significant impact on the period of the pendulum, we carried out the experiments for the string length and the angle of the release to develop a mathematical model.
The theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is the general line (linear) with the formula, $y=mx$ + b         . On figures 2.2 and 3.2, you can see that the data points for the length of the string and the angle of the release both increased in slope. The steepness of the slope differs between the two with the length versus time having the steeper one. There is a linear relationship between the length and time and the angle of the release and the time which means if one increases, the other variable would increase too.  
The errors that were present in this experiment were systematic. In order to reduce this error or to do so in the future, we would have to repeat the number of the measurements and then once we got the specific amount that we need, we would take an average out of it.  
In this experiment, the constraints that may have the possibility of limiting the generalizability of our results include having more people so that the measurements would be even more accurate, the amount of push exerted to the pendulum by hand, being able to record the time at the exact moments, and the measurement with the measuring tape of the string to the exact length. 
