conclusion:


during the course of three lab periods our team and i investigated the various factors that could affect the period of a pendulum. one of the variables that we adjusted was the length of the string in order to see its effect on the period of a pendulum. our hypothesis was that as the length of the string is increased the period of the pendulum also would increase. the angle of initial release and mass of the bob were kept at constant values so as to ensure that our data would more conclusively show the relationship between only the length and the period. as according to the graphs, the period did increase as the length of the string increased. this made our hypothesis be proven true. the next factor that we investigated was the mass of the bob. we predicted that the period would increase if the mass of the bob were to be increased. the length of the string and the initial angle of release were both kept constant for these trials. our data that we gathered showed that this was not true, there was not a direct relationship between the mass and the period of the pendulum. our final factor that our team investigated was the initial angle of release and how it affected the period of the pendulum. our hypothesis that we tested was is  as the initial angle of release is increased the period of the pendulum will increase as well. the length of the string and mass of the bob were kept the same for these trials. this hypothesis also proved to be incorrect as our data ended up showing that only with significant angle increase, did the period increase with it. our mathematical model was is  $t=0.1851 l^{0.5176}$.  the relationship is a power function. if a model were to be created for the other factors the result would be a horizontal line due to the lack of a direct relationship. some possible sources of error could include human error in the process of taking measurements. future tests could be done with a photogate and an apparatus that ensures exact angle release. a constraint of this lab would be the human error and inconsistencies.