discussion and conclusion

	the research question being investigated in this lab is “what impacts the period of a pendulum?”

	based upon our results in the first experiment we conclude that the period of a pendulum swing is affected by the length of the string and the angle of release. this happened from determining that when the length of the string increased the period increased as seen in the length vs. time graph. when the angle of release increased, the period increased as seen from the angle vs. time graph. however, as we can conclude from the mass vs. time graph it shows almost a steady line which means it has little effect on the period of the pendulum. in experiment two in affects to the research question we determined the uncertainties and error bars that come with this experiment of impacting the period of the pendulum. so, the three graphs above that show the error bars. the assumption that can be made is that in all three of the graphs the first set of data seems to extend outside of the error bars shown in all three graphs meaning this set of data could be unreliable. if we have unreliable data, it could affect on how we determine what impacts the period of a pendulum. thus, i feel confident in our values because based on the equivalency criterion our data points do lie within the two standard deviations making it 95%. this can confirm our statement from lab 01. in experiment 3 the uncertainty measurements with the photogate are 0.001. which represents a very small variability or error in results as seen in the lab 03 graphs.

	here is the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum above. our data fits with this model because we plotted the data in excel then when using this system, we created a scatter plot graph. once this was done, we obtained a trendline to figure out the equation by using the power function. therefore, on our lab 03 graphs you see that meaning our data best reflected on the equation generated. our equation resulted in $t=0.6997588 x$. the coefficient represents the combination of the x and y components. thus, this equation is slightly different from the true theoretical model, but this can be accounted for the small error in photogate.

	the random errors that were present in this experiment was delay in observing time, angle measure accuracy, and the release point. the systematic errors that showed could have been the stopwatch being broken or old, pendulum could be unbalanced, and table could be tilted. therefore, in order to reduce random error we used the average measurement from a set of measurements or increase the sample size. then in order to reduce systematic error we made sure our equipment was working to the best of our ability by understanding how the systems used. 

	the constraints within the experiment were time constraints, where we only had lab time to conduct the experiment. we were limited to the type of equipment used. last, the space used was constricted due to the size of the class. therefore, this could affect the generalizability of the results by limiting on the depth we could go in this experiment and skewing some of results related from the constraints.