
Conclusion
	In this lab we conducted tests in order to test the relationship between the weight of objects in a system and how it would cause affeceted the accleration that a cart experienced through the force measured. From these tests we were able to take our data and construct multiple mathematical models to represent the relationships related to how Newton’s second law affected the system and furthering off of this we were able to identify what each variable in these equations represents. When conducting the tests for changing the mass of the hanging bob we were able to find that the mathematical relationship for this model was $a=27.829 m + 0.0154$. Using Newtons second law of $F = M a$ we drew the conclusions that within this model the constant 27.829 was the force that was applied to the system and in this instance,  it makes sense for it to be multiplied rather than divided due to the mass of the hanging bob being a fraction of a kilogram, and this measurement would cause a change in the force. In this model we also have a constant of 0.0154 and after completing our second set of tests by attaching magnets to the system, in order to simulate a friction force, we were able to see a change in this value and this value shows that there is not a perfectly frictionless surface in the system even though the change in force it causes is small it is still present. From this graph we were able to draw an overall conclusions that as the mass of the hanging bob increased there would be an evenly spread increase in the force which would then effect the change in acceleration to be shown in an upward linear pattern. For our tests that we took while changing the mass of the cart on the track we created an exponential model for the relationship of the data, $a = 0.2772 e^{1.8999} M$. In this mathematical model the constant of ln(0.2772) + 1.8999 would represent the force that is applied to the system which would equal to 1/ln(0.2772) + 1.8999. From this model we were able to draw the conclusion that as the mass increases for this system it will start out a slight but ass the cart begins to have more force applied there will be a quicker growth in the acceleration compared to if the force is reliant upon the hanging bob. 
	When considering how our results could be altered we determined that a natural force we did not account for in these tests was air resistance, the overall start posistion of our cart, and also our initial velocity of our cart. If we were to account for these variables we would have been able to see that there is a systematic decrease counted towards the force applied since it would have a similar reaction to friction. When relating the variables to our cart to our results we believe that there would be a greater acceleration if the initial posistion of the cart were to be increased especially when the mass of the cart was being changed, due to its exponential relationship, and also when the initial velocity is increased since it will alreaddy have had a force applied to it and it won’t have spend extra time accelerating from rest. I believe something that may have also had affect on our test data would have been when we conducted our tests with magnets on the cart. While this was an effective way to simulate friction and to see that there was a change in values within our model, there still was not an exponentially great amount of friction between the cart and the system so it was still difficult to get a true reading of what extent friction has on a system.