discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of lab 05 was to develop experimental mathematical models to describe the behavior (acceleration) of a system in a real lab setting while the purpose of lab 06 was to further explore how the actual lab setting contributed to the mathematical model, , which was developed in lab 05.
the 3 experiments led to our selected mathematical model for lab 05 and 06, which represents friction. shown in graph 1, 2, and 3 above (under lab 06) it shows that when force increases or decreases in value, the acceleration will also increase or decrease. in experiment 1 it had the least amount of magnets, meaning it had the less friction. experiment 2 had more magnets and a little more friction, thus leaving experiment 3 with the most magnets and greatest amount of friction on the cart. as can be seen from the data on the whiteboards in the photos below, when the physical feature of the lab setting was tilt instead of friction, the c2 value was negative instead of positive. which was also true for our derived equation in lab 05, while our c2 value for friction as a physical feature of the lab was negative. this indicates that friction was likely not a significant contributing factor to the derivation of said equation performed in the previous lab experiment. 
the observations and conclusion from the combination of group 1 and 5’s data shows the only two contributing factors that influenced acceleration are force and mass. the result of these groups contribute to my understanding of what the numerical values in the mathematical models represent by both groups showing when their cart’s mass had increased, the acceleration decreased exponentially, likewise, when the cart’s mass had decreased, the acceleration increased exponentially.
some systematic and human errors could have been present when timing the speed of the moving cart. one person had to add the extra mass while the other hit the start/stop button. if the button was hit too late or too soon it may have affected the calculations as well as the data being collected. however, in order to reduce the possible errors we would test our data multiple times and ran multiple trials.
there were little to no constraints in the experiment. we were able to run as many multiple trials to eliminate errors, as well as recognize a trend in our data. by doing this it eliminated human and systematic error that may have occurred.
both experimental models support newton’s second law, as they both illustrate a causal relationship between force, mass, and acceleration -- which is what newton’s second law observes ($f = m a$). if our numerical values were more reliable (not too different from that of our peers), perhaps would could draw conclusions about how newton’s second law provides meaning to these numbers. however, due to the equipment malfunction, causing an increase in friction forces, no reliable conclusion may be drawn about the coefficients or other numerical values calculated in our mathematical models. this malfunction, along with other inevitable errors, may account for the differences between our experimental models and newton’s second law.