Discussion:
The purpose of this lab was to develop mathematical models to illustrate the behavior of a real-world model and to understand what each variable means.  Three experiments were done to achieve the stated goal. The first of these experiments involved moving weight from M1 to M2. After each trial a bobber was moved from M1 to M2 while keeping M1+M2 constant. This data is represented in figures 2-1 and 2-2. The data confirms our prediction made in figure 1-1 which states “When M2 increases, so does the acceleration”. This is also shown in our R2 value of .998 meaning our data fit very well. In experiment two we changed the mass of M1 while keeping M2 constant through out the entire experiment. We predicted that as M1 increased the acceleration would decrease (figure 2-1). The data collected supports this claim but has a slightly worse R2(.983) than the first experiment, however, this doesn’t change our conclusion about the data. In the third and final experiment we looked at how the tilt of the track would affect the acceleration and how it would compare to our models in the first experiment. To do this experiment we ran three mini experiments within one experiment that were modeled off experiment one. In trials 1.1-1.5 we shifted the weight from M1 to M2 with one small bar underneath the back of the track giving it some forward tilt. In trials 2.1-2.5 we again shifted the weight the same way but added another medium size bar underneath giving it a little more tilt than before. In trials 3.1-3.5 the weight was shifted like the previous trials, but a small bar and medium bar was placed under the track. The data showed that the tilt really didn’t have much affect on the acceleration. When comparing trials corresponding trials for each of 3 sub experiments you see that the numbers were very close. For trials 2.1 and 3.1 had the same acceleration magnitude despite having a different tilt, this is also occurred in trials 2.2 and 3.2. Based on this data you can conclude that forward tilt does not influence the acceleration of the mass. This is does go against our initial predication. Our initial prediction is backed up by other groups. Group 1 concluded based off their data that as the forward tilt increased the acceleration also increased. Newtons second law states the $F = m a$ this holds true for these experiments. Some errors that may have occurred include inaccurate start and stop time. To reduce this multiple sub trials of each main trial can be run, and the average can be used. This reduces the error generated from imperfect start and stop. In experiment 1 the force was increasing as the trials went on, during these trials the mass of the system was kept the same which means the acceleration had to increase. This can be seen in all three experiments.  