conclusion:
What impacts the period of a pendulum?
 this tested the factor of release angle and its impact on the period of a pendulum. Our original claim was that it would have an impact and that this impact would have a positive relationship, meaning that as the angle increased, time would increase. However our claim was disproved through further testing, and we came to the conclusion that there is no relationship between release angle and time of one period. In the graph, although there appears to be a negative trend, or measure of uncertainty overlaps for each data point, showing that the relationship could be due to error and that most likely there is no relationship. The conditions of our experiment were based upon our measurement of  uncertainty. 

this tested the factor of mass and its impact on the period of a pendulum. Our original claim was that it would have an impact and that this impact would have a negative relationship, meaning that as the mass increased, time would decrease. However our claim was disproved through further testing, and we came to the conclusion that there is no relationship between mass and the time of one period of a pendulum. This is due to the constant of gravity at 9.8m/s acting against the pendulum regardless of its mass. In our table and our graph, there is clearly no relationship, and once we measure our uncertainty we were able to see a complete overlap in our data points proving there was no relationship between mass and time of a period. The conditions of our experiment were based upon our measure of uncertainty. 

 this tested the factor of string length and its impact on the period of a pendulum. Our original claim was that it would have an impact and that this impact would have a positive relationship, meaning that as the string length increased, the time of one period would also increase. We tested this prediction twice, one time using a much more efficient measurement system for time (a laser trigger) and this made our measure of uncertainty 0.001 seconds. Our final conclusion was that string length does impact the period of a pendulum and has a positive power relationship of . Our  value is 0.9985, showing a very high correlation. Our graph, including the error bars, shows no overlap between data points clearly showing a relationship.

The theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is . Using the laser timer we were able to create the plot of String Length vs. Time of One Period and found our mathematical model, which was . Our model is fairly close to the theoretical model, with an  value of 0.9985, showing a high level of correlation in our data. Our other models for release angle and mass of weight showed no relationship and therefore do not fit this model. The only factor tested that fits this model is String Length.
