discussion and conclusion



	the purpose of this lab is to develop mathematical models which describe the behavior of a real system as well as develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value included in the model.

	for the first experiment, we tested the acceleration of a controlled system by means of changing the distribution of the mass within the system.  mass was moved around from the hanging object to the object atop the cart, and the test was run eight times to capture every change in distribution.  the data collected was plotted in an acceleration versus force applied graph via excel to create a mathematical model, visible in figure 1.  the force applied value was mass of the hanging collection of bobbers * gravity.  our data created a model with an r^2 value of .9994 which solidifies that the model is a very close representation of the actual model.  in the second experiment, a similar experiment was tested, this time changing the total mass of the system by adding mass to the top of the cart and recording the data in the same manner as experiment 1 (figure 2).   this model produced an r^2 of .9662, which, while it’s not quite as accurate as experiment 1, still provides a mostly accurate model for the situation.  third, we tested to see if friction had an affect on the mathematical model of the acceleration of the system.  plotted in figure 3, we created a model that fell perfectly along the points, for the r^2 value was 1.  in each of the models, f represents the force applied, and the + c represents that constant that accounts for all outside factors affecting the system.  from our data, we concluded that distribution does affect the acceleration of a system the way we had predicted, overall mass of a system affects its acceleration the way we had predicted, friction affects the acceleration in the way we had anticipated, and tilt had no affect on the acceleration.

	data from other groups is known about their tilt experiment.  to compare, we will look at tilt 4 from group 1, and tilt 1 from group 3.  group 3 tilt 1 tested no tilt- the used 0mm, and their mathematical model was $a=3.008 f - 0.029$.  group 1 tilt 4 used a 28.87mm tilt, the highest one recorded from class.  their model was $a=2.919 f + 0.1208$.  the coefficient of f between the equations is only 0.089 different and the tilt was 28.87mm different.  these two specific points, also including all the others listed in table 4, suggest that tilt of the system has no affect on its acceleration.  since the slopes, or the accelerations of the systems, are so close, it is reasonable to conclude that there isn’t a noticeable enough difference in the acceleration to claim that it’s a factor affecting it.

	we seem to have experienced very little error at all in the first experiment.  with an r^2 of .9994, there was hardly any error to pull our points off the trendline.  however, obviously there still was error present (r^2 did not equal 1).  experiment 1 and 2 harbored random error.  in neither case was all the data either above or below the trend line, but rather had points on either side of it (see figures 1 and 2).  in both cases, this random error could have come from inconsistencies in the masses of the bobbers and uncertainty of the program recording the speed/distance of the system on the track.  any of these random errors would cause the constant + c to be further from zero, because any inconsistency would be taken as an external force acting on the system.  to reduce error, we limited human touch as much as possible by using a computer program to return the acceleration of the system.  we also used a scale to weigh each of the bobbers to attempt to reduce error, however the uncertainty of the scale could have in turn also contributed to some error.

	factors that we did not test that could affect our claims include friction forces greater than that produced by six magnets, tilts greater than 28.87mm, mass of the cart greater than .45kg, and gravities different than earth’s.  

	the models we were able to create are forms of newton’s 2nd law, $f_{net} = m_{system} a$.  since the slope of the graphs is acceleration, then the m value from our models is acceleration.  the f represents the force applied which comes from the mass*gravity.  because of these two values, the models remain consistent with newton’s 2nd law- the difference comes from the + c.  because we weren’t able to successfully control every outside force, we have an added constant that newton didn’t.  however, if we were to conduct the same experiments in a perfect simulation, our + c would be  0, leading us back to        $f = m a$.