discussion and conclusion

what affects the period of a pendulum?

the first experiment that was performed to determine whether the mass affected the period of the pendulum. this experiment addressed the research question by showing that the mass did not affect the period. the graph of the data from this experiment did not show a positive or negative slope, which means that there was no correlation between the mass and the period of the pendulum. the second experiment determined whether the angle of release affected the period of the pendulum. this experiment addressed the research question by showing that the angle of release did not affect the period. the graph of the data from this experiment did not show a positive or negative slope, which means that there was no correlation between angle of release and the period of the pendulum. the third experiment determined whether the string length affected the period of the pendulum. this experiment addressed the research question by showing that the period of the pendulum was affected by the string length. the graph of the data from this experiment showed a positive slope, which means there is positive correlation between string length and period of the pendulum. the conditions under which this slaim is valid are the mass and angle release being constant, as well as air resistance being ignored. therefore, the claims that can be made from the three experiments are that mass and angle of release do not affect the period, but string length and period are positively correlated.

the theoretical model for the period of the pendulum is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$       the data from our experiments fits with this model because the only variables included in the model are length and time. if other variables are used in this model such as mass or release angle, there will be no correlation between the time and the variable. this equation supports the fact that the data will not be linear on the length vs time graph. instead, a power curve was used in order to better represent the strong positive correlation between time and length. the r squared value for the power function model was extremely close to 1 (.9998), confirming that the data points closely aligned to the power function. 

there were many errors that could have occurred when obtaining our data. some systematic errors that could’ve been present were the measuring tape not having accurate lengths and the mass not being completely accurate. to reduce the error in mass, a triple beam balance could be used to ensure the mass was accurately measured. some random errors that could’ve occurred were not accurately measuring the string, not starting and stopping the timer at the right time, and not measuring the angle correctly. these random errors could be reduced by being more precise with measurements and repeating the experiment more. also, the photogate can be used to reduce standard deviation because it reduces the random error of stopping and starting the timer. 

there were a few constraints that limited the generalizability of our results. these constraints included the limited amount of mass and string length to use, which did not allow us to test longer strings or higher mass amounts. another constraint was the fact that the tools we used, such as the photogate, only allowed for a certain standard deviation. therefore, our data was limited as to how accurate it was. also, the constraint of a 2-hour class time did not allow us to complete a lot of trials. if these constraints were limited, the data could be more accurate.