conclusion:
research question: what impacts the period of a pendulum?



our experiments all related to and tested the research question. in our first experiment, we tested how the mass of the pendulum affects the period of the pendulum. we found that when changing the mass of the pendulum while keeping the string length and release angle constant, the mass did not have an effect on the period of the pendulum. you can see when looking at our graph for this experiment (graph 1), the time of the period stayed about the same as we changed the weights. our error bars show a standard deviation of 0.077466839. when looking at these error bars, they overlap fairly well showing that one cannot assume there is an effect on the time of the period due to a change in mass.  any deviation in the time was due to random and systematic error. a huge error in this experiment with mass was human error with timing. 

in the second experiment, we tested how the length of the string affects the period of the pendulum. our group found that when we changed the length of the string while keeping all other factors constant, the period of the pendulum changed. this told us that as the length of the string increases, the time of a period increases. you can see by looking on our graph that this is shown. although our error bars cannot be seen on the graph due to size, the standard deviation is 0.001. this shows that our data has is very accurate with little room for error and so is the relationship shown in that graph. as the length of the string increases, the time of the period increases at a nonlinear rate, shown best through the power curve on our graph. one can find that when the chances for error decrease, this curve will be more and more accurate. 

in our third experiment, we tested how the angle of release affects the period of the pendulum. we found that when we changed the angle we released the pendulum from, while keeping the mass and length of the string constant, the time of the period did not change. our standard deviation for this experiment was 0.077466839. on our graph you can see our data is all very close in time and when looking at the error bars they correspond enough that one cannot assume an effect was made. any deviation in our data times was due to random and systematic error, especially from human error made during timing. 


	the theoretical math model for this experiment is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. when looking at this equation one can see that the only variables shown are length and time. our data supports this because when looking at our conclusions from our graphs, we found that the only experiment that affected the period of the pendulum was the length of the string. when trying to plug in the other factors into this equation, such as angle of release and mass of pendulum, one would find that when testing one of those two and keeping the other one and the string length constant, the time would never change. if the string length is constant, no matter how you change anything else, the equation will always be solved the same time. in the equation mass and angle are not even variables, proving there is no way they could have an effect on the period of the pendulum. this equation also supports the idea that there will be a nonlinear best fit line on our string length vs period of pendulum of graph. instead, the graph uses a power curve which shows a very strong relationship when looking at the r^2 due to the fact that it is extremely close to 1.
there are many errors that could have caused fluctuations in our data. some things that could have affected that were random were not being accurate with the angle, and our timing being off. also, our string length may not have been perfect each time especially due to the fact that our knot kept untying. lastly, not dropping the pendulum completely parallel to the ring stand could cause the pendulum to spin slightly and create a longer period. the systematic errors we encountered were with the mass and measuring tape. the measuring tape may have some error in the lengths causing our data to be skewed. also, the mass of the weights might not have been completely accurate, skewing the data as well. random or systematic errors could be reduced if we repeated the experiment more times. this is because you will have more data and when you take the average of it the data is more likely to be accurate. also, using a photogate for timing reduces the standard deviation and allows for more accurate data. 

there were a few constraints we experienced during this experiment which could have limited the accuracy of our data. we were given a limited height which allowed us to explore only a small range of string lengths and observed how they affect the period. also, we had a limited amount of weights we were able to add to the pendulum. this did not allow us to test how a full range of masses will affect the period. lastly, we had a time constraint, so we were not able to repeat the experiment a lot of times. if we had the opportunity to perform more trials, our data would have gotten increasingly more accurate.