conclusion:
the purpose of lab 05 was to explore the mathematical models as they apply to a real system and to understand the meaning of the variables, we used in the model in lab 06. for the first and second experiment in lab 05, our mathematical model was created by plotting the points in excel and creating a graph.  our model for the first experiment was is  $a=0.003 m - 0.0111$ in figure 2 and our model for the second experiment was $a = 5744.7 * m^{-1.057}$ in figure 4. we expanded on the results from figure 2 in lab 06. we identified the b value of 0.011 by varying the slope in the direction of motion. we found increasing the slope in the direction of motion decreased the b value in figure 5 with the set of models in figure 6.
the trend line we observed was similar to group 3’s work in figure 7. group 3 recorded a decline in their b value when the platform’s slope was raised. on the contrary, in figure 8, group 1 observed the acceleration doing the opposite. as the height is raised toward the direction of motion, the acceleration increases. we disagree with this because it does not make sense intuitively and their results are within the margin are error. we do agree that the b value as shown in their model is going to change with changes in slope.

	one error we did not consider, or control is air resistance. we assumed a negligible air resistance value. the change enacted by this factor could be measured by varying to force of air against the sled with a fan. although this factor could not be reasonably controlled for physically, if this experiment was conducted in a vacuum that would control for air resistance due to the lack of air. another improvement that could be made to our process is adding more data by doing multiple trials of each test. this would average out potential flukes, creating a more accurate data set. we cannot totally control for variables such as friction or air resistance easily. this impacts the generalizability of our results as our environment is impacted by assumed negatable forces.

	in lab 05, our results are consistent with newton's second law. $f = m a$.  in our first experiment in figure 2 the mass in the equation stays the same but the force on the entire system goes up after each trial therefore the acceleration should also increase after each trial and based on our data it does.  for the second experiment the force on the entire system stays the same but the mass increases after each trial and according to newton’s second law the acceleration should decrease, and this happens in our chart in figure 4. in lab 06 this is expanded with our b value that represents the other part of the sum of force caused by the impact of force as a result of the change in angle with respect to motion. this is modeled in figure 5 and 6 and is consistent with our expectation that the component not affected by the slope should not change significantly, while b changes noticeably.