discussion and conclusion:

	the purpose of these labs went hand and hand to with each other though were slightly different in the outcomes we obtained. for lab 5 our purpose was to find the mathematical model that represents that of a real system. while in lab 6 we used that mathematical model found in lab 5 and gained understanding for each piece of the model such as the variables and values.

to find these mathematical models we did three different experiments two of which where in lab 5 and one was in lab 6. in lab 5 we were experimenting on how the applied force and the mass of the system affects the acceleration of the system. for the first experiment as we changed the applied force of the system we received a steady linear incline as seen on figure 1. this data produced a best fit line that was linear which in turn yielded a an equation of $y=3.0915 x - 0.02$ in this case the y-value would be acceleration while the x-value would be the applied force. this mathematical model is the closest to being correct due to the fact that the r^2 value is 0.99974 which is extremely close to 1. though for the second experiment we measured the change in the mass of the cart on the acceleration which produced in figure two a graph that shows a slightly curved line in which there is a negative correlation. due to the slight curve of the graph our best fit line was a power function which produced the mathematical model of $y=\frac{1.5436}{x^{0.958}}$. in this case the y-value still stands for acceleration while the x-value stands for the mass of the cart in grams. due to the r^2 value that is produced from the mathematical model which is 0.99982, the mathematical model can be deemed the best option because of its close proximity to 1. in lab 6 we completed one experiment though we collected data to produce 3 graphs to see what effect a slight change of the tilt of the system had on the acceleration. when looking at all of the graphs which are figures 3 through 5 we can see that the data collected produced a linear line in all 3 cases. this means that the mathematical model was a linear equation in which the y-value was acceleration and the x-value was the applied force. each figure produced a slightly different graph with a slightly different equation though they were all close together in value. figure 3 was $y=2.9942 x + 0.047$ with an r^2 value of 0.99989, figure 4 had $y=2.8703 x - 0.045$ along with an r^2 value of 0.99856, and the last figure which was figure 5 had $y=2.9833 x - 0.073$ and a r^2 of 0.99991. with these different equations you see a slight difference as the tilt increases which shows a positive but very small effect of the tilt on the acceleration of the system. 

when comparing our mathematical models to a few other groups data for lab 6 in our lab period was very helpful to understand the numerical values of our models. 



as pictured above we used the results that group 2 as well as group 1 got from changing the incline of their system. for both groups when analyzing their mathematical models, we see that the models slightly increase as the tilt increases. much like all of our equations their r^2 values ranged between .9000 and 1 which shows a large amount of accuracy in our mathematical models. after analyzing both group 1 and 2 i had a better understanding that though the difference is small there is a slight difference in acceleration of the system as a larger tilt is introduced to the track. 

	in these labs there was a chance for random error in regards to the mass of the system, because every bobber may of had a different weight and if each was not measured the mass might not be accurate. if you are using the mass in calculations the chance that the acceleration is affected is highly likely. for future experiments you would weigh each bobber to account for slight differences in mass which would lower the chance for error. another possible error would be that the hanging mass could be caught in the pulley which would change the graph produced on the computer, this changes your uncertainty and acceleration values. this could change the values to be smaller because the hanging mass would not be the applied force but rather the pulley would be. to lower this error in this future you would check the pulley before ever single trial as to make sure you have the most accurate values. a different error would be the chance that the vacuum and the database would not be started at the exact same time which would cause a miscalculation on our data. by having one person turn the vacuum on while the other starts the database at the exact same time is a good way to keep the error lower. 

	in lab 6 our experiment has a constraint that the tilt being added to the track is very small. this limits the results because the changes are very small and could be attributed to error rather then a systematic change. to change this, i would make the tilt bigger over the 3 trials to see if the difference really has an affect on the acceleration. 

	newton’s second law is consistent with the two mathematical models produced in our labs because they produce two linear equations. when you are looking for the m-system that's our x-value and the net force is our acceleration of the system while a is the y-intercept value.