conclusion:

the purpose of lab 5 is to be able to create mathematical models from an experiment that describe the behavior of a real system. the purpose of lab 6 is to be able to understand the variables and numerical values for the model.

the mathematical models from the two experiments in lab 05 are $y=2.8182 x - 0.05$ for force vs acceleration and $y=0.1436 x - 0.91$ for mass vs acceleration. for the model in figure 1 is  force vs acceleration, as the downward force increased, the slope also increased. the slope in this graph reflected a positive linear effect. the forces in the system that were affected were the force on the system and the mass of the system. as the mass goes up in the system, the acceleration goes down. as the force goes up, so does the acceleration. my interpretation for the physical meaning of each variable and numerical value in $y=2.8182 x - 0.05$ are y is the acceleration, 2.8182 is the constant that is multiplied with the change in force, x is the change in force, and 0.0501 is the constant subtracted from the constant time the change in force. for the model in figure 2 is  mass vs acceleration, as mass increased, the slop of the line decreased causing a linear slope. my interpretation for the physical meaning of each variable and numerical value in $y=0.1436 x - 0.91$ are y is the acceleration, 0.1436 is the constant that is multiplied with the mass, x is the mass of the system, and -0.919 is the power that the system is at.

group 2’s whiteboard reflects that the value of the slope was very small, and it had few similarities to the change in acceleration of the object in their experiment. group 6’s whiteboard reflects that their object was accelerated faster, so then the slope of their incline was going downward. the results of group 2 and 6 contribute to my understanding of what the numerical values in my mathematical models might represent by allowing me to see that the slope does affect the acceleration while friction does not. 

imprecise measurements of the weight are an error that might have been present. the mass used in the experiments may have been off so then all our calculations would have been off. in the future to fix this error and electric scale could reduce this.  

	constraints in this experiment that may limit the generalizability of our experiment are using the velocity sensor. we did not know whether the sensor was calibrated or not so this is a possible limit that could affect out results.

	the model   can be written in similar form as our models which is the form . the variable c1 from the form  represents 1/mass. this is 1/mass of the whole system in the model. we assumed that the masses in the experiments from lab 5 and lab 6 were relatively close to each other since the values for the variables coincide with each other between   and . also, we realized that the variable c2 is the slope of the system.