discussion and conclusion:

	the question being investigated in this lab is how the acceleration of a system is affected when the applied force on the system changes. the force is applied by transferring the gravitational force on the hanging mass through a string, across a pulley, and to the cart being pulled. the mass of the system is kept constant because we kept 8 bobs and the same cart in the system at all times, and we would change the hanging mass by taking a bob from the cart and hanging it from the string. 


	both findings of the other groups support our conclusion. they both came to a similar positive linear trend. the mathematical equations they found were also very similar the one we found (graph 1).

	the theoretical mathematical equation for this experiment was (1/system mass) f + (friction coefficient/system mass). the experimental model was acceleration (m/s^2) is 1.09mass (g) + 1.273. these compare well because the mass of the system was 0.1912. using (1/system mass), we get 1/0.1912 which is equal to 5.23. it is close to the experimental model which is 3.8971. the fact that they are not equal suggests error. one thing that would change the value is the fact that the string was not massless. since the string was not massless, it would increase the mass of the overall system. this decreases the slope of the trendline because it decreases the acceleration of the cart for every newton of force applied. another source of error can be found in the track. in the ideal experiment, there would be no friction, which means that the y-intercept of the trendline graph would be zero. since the experimental model shows a y-intercept greater than zero, we know that there was some friction in the track.

	random errors include imperfections in the track. a stronger air vent would lift the cart off the track more and reduce the friction coefficient. some trials had to be repeated, because there were small debris (dust, hair, etc.) on the track. wiping the track with an alcohol wipe and then allowing it to dry would reduce this friction in the system. some systematic error that occurred is air resistance. the equation assumes air resistance is negligible, but it is present and decreases the acceleration of the car. this could be resolved by running the test in a vacuum. other than these errors, there is nothing that affects the generalizability of the results.