conclusion:

after determining whether or not different factors affected the acceleration vs the applied force, we came to the conclusion that as the force applied increases, the acceleration increases as well and when the force applied decreases, so does the acceleration. by increasing the angle, we saw that it increased the b value of the mathematical model but will not change the m value or effect the acceleration as the force applied increases. the factors that did impact the numerical values of this experiment was the mass of the system, the length of the string and the angle at which the system was released. because of this the acceleration was impacted as well. as the angle increased, the acceleration became smaller. as the mass increased, the acceleration decreased. and as the length of the string increased so did the acceleration. we are confident in our results because the r2 is  .999. this meaning the there is almost a perfect fit, this means there is a strong trend line. the c1 value for this lab was 2.9705.  because this is the slope for our equation we can see that when there is an increase in force, there is an increase in acceleration. the change in the acceleration was approximately around 2.00 m/s2. although these 2 values are not exact, we can contribute this to the error of the lab. the c2 value was .1249. this is the acceleration of the system when the force is zero. although the value was not exactly zero, we can contribute this to the error which was the friction of the track. 

	because the friction of the track was an effector of the experiment, we could have also said that this could be a factor that affected the acceleration of the system. because friction of the track opposes the movement of the system, we could explain that as the friction increases, the acceleration of the system decreases. 

	the experiment could be improved by either lowering the mass of the sled or increasing the airflow of the track so there is no friction force applied. if the track was completely friction less, there would be no other force acting on the system which would not affect the total force. because of this, it would have been able to strengthen our results.