conclusion::
The original research questions:
How does the acceleration of a system change when the mass changes? 
How does a backward tilt or added friction, change the acceleration of the system? 
Our original hypothesis is that force is positively correlated to acceleration, meaning an increase in force is related to an increase in acceleration. Test data shows that this hypothesis is true. In the first experiment, a straight line can be drawn through every point with very little variance. The straight line goes through the error bars very easily, and the R value is .9998, meaning that there is a very high probability of a correlation.
Our group tested how changing the angle of the beam affected the acceleration. Our test was done by starting the beam parallel to the table, then increasing the height at the end of the beam that the cart traveled to. This test was repeated for different masses Our prediction was that as the height of one end of the beam increased, the acceleration of the cart would decrease. This hypothesis turned out to be true.

Across the 5 different graphs that our group made, as the height increased, the slope of the line that is plotted for each graph decreased. Another group made a very similar test, and the same can be seen is  as the angle of the beam increased, the slope comparing the acceleration to the force decreased. Another group tested for how friction forces affected the acceleration. A friction force is a force that always opposes motion, so it is always negative to the direction of the applied force. In each of the friction tests, the cart had increasing friction, so the net force was reduced in each trial. The same result can be found as the trials for the height of the beam is  As force was reduced from the system, the slope that compares force to acceleration decreased.
The theoretical equation for acceleration is $a=\frac{F}{m}$ meaning Acceleration is the Net Force of the system divided by the mass. The equation that we concluded from our hanging mass test was $y=2.87 x - 0.0219$ with y being the acceleration and x being the force. This equation does support the theoretical model because it has a positive slope. This means that in both equations, an increase in force means an increase in acceleration. The same can be concluded from the angled beam and the friction tests. The slope from those graphs show that as the net force increases (meaning friction force decreases), the acceleration increases.
A potential random error is in the accelerometer used in the tests. It works by measuring how fast the wheel spins as the string moves over it, so it relies on friction between the wheel and the string. There is some room for error in theory. If the wheel slips at any point, the acceleration would appear to be lower than reality. A different material string or wheel could be designed to have more friction. Another potential error is in measuring the mass of the system. A triple beam balanced was used to measure all mass in the system. If miscalibrated, it could mean that the mass is either greater or less than reality. An electronic scale may have more accuracy.
Air Resistance is a constraint in the equation. As the car travels and mass drops, a slight drag of air resistance is applied. The system could be recreated in a vacuum to remove this constraint.
