Conclusion:

The purpose of this lab to was analyze variables of acceleration on a frictionless system, using mathematical models obtained through experimentation. This included testing the acceleration under variable masses for m1 and m2, as well as the effect of magnetic forces vs acceleration on a frictionless system.
Graph 1 displays our results for Table 1, which shows a positive correlation. This is because as the force of the weight of m1 increased, the Tension force of m2 in the positive x direction increased with it, leading to a higher system acceleration. 
Graph 2 displays our result for Table 2, which shows a negative correlation. However, I have my doubts about the validity of this graph. There should only be two possible forces for the acceleration of m2 on the x axis is  the tension force caused by the weight of m1, and the friction of the overall system. So, in a truly frictionless system, the variable in m2’s acceleration should be due to the mass of m1. In other words, in a truly frictionless surface, m1 should be able to move m2 where m2 has a mass of 1g, just as easily as it moves m2 with a mass of 10000g. If the trendline of the graph was correct, that would mean that the mass acceleration of the system, regardless of the weight of m2, would be 1.143. Although, Graph 2 does not truly support my claim.
Graph 3 displays our result for Table 3, which shows a negative correlation between the magnetic force on the track and the acceleration of the system. This could be attributed to one of two cases. Either the force of the magnets is forcing the system onto the track, causing friction; or, the movement of the magnets from their resting position causes resistance as the acceleration increases.
All groups agreed that adding more magnets tended to cause the acceleration of the system to decrease. Group 3 did seem to notice a more significant change in acceleration under the varying number of magnets. The group in Picture 3, did not have a mathematical model preen on their whiteboard, however, their change in the slope of their graphs, were less dramatic than group 3’s. The only factors I can think to attribute to these different values (other than random or human errors) would be a difference in the effectiveness of the air track, and the power of the magnets.
A huge source for possible systematic error is in the effectiveness of the air track. There is no way to truly ensure that the track was frictionless, and since the track could not instantly engage, there is always a slight factor of error as m2 first begins to accelerate. System error is very difficult to reduce in this case. There was not much room for random error in this case as the acceleration was measured by a computer system. The only task that could possible allow random error included the starting position of the (which has no effect on the acceleration) and the measuring of the mass of the system. However, our graphs had generally high correlations, so I doubt there was much error in this lab. The mass of the string was also a systematic error; however, it is one that is impossible to complexly isolate from the system without creating an equation of its force as the distribution on each side of the pulley changes as the system moves.
There were very little constraints on this experiment. The most critical measurements were done by computer, and the system was very simplistic to implement. Many trials were taken of each experiment. We even re-ran the first experiment form lab 6 and got very similar results as the first time. So, I don’t think there were many constraints on the generalizability of this lab. 
$F = m a$. When we increase the mass of m1 we saw an increase in the acceleration, as the force of the weight increases. When we increased the force of m2 in comparison to m1 the system’s acceleration decreased as the resisting force of m2 increased. Both Graph 1 and 3 displayed this relationship with the positive correlation between the mass and acceleration on m1.
