conclusion:
	throughout the course of these 2 labs and experiments the goal was to determine what variables impact the acceleration of a system.  the variables that were tested in these two labs were the force applied to the system, the mass of the system, and the tilt of the air track that the system was on.  

in the first experiment two variables were tested as the independent variables, the force being applied to the system, and the mass of the system.  these variables were tested to see the change in the dependent variable, the acceleration of the system.  in the first part of the experiment the force of the system was changed, this was done by moving weights that were originally on the sled that was placed on the frictionless track, and dangled them down below the sled, causing there to be more force on the system.  the force on the system has a positive linear correlation with the acceleration of the system, and the error bars in the graph were too small to be seen meaning that there was little error in our measurements.  after comparing the results of our data with that of another group, it was discovered that our data agreed with that of the other group.  the data was then compared to a second groups findings, in which the data once again agreed.  the theoretical equation for the acceleration  and the experimental mathematical model is .  the experimental mathematical model supports the theoretical model because with both, the force would have a linear relationship to acceleration.  the enhanced theoretical equation is .  

in the second part of the experiment the mass of the system was changed, this was done by adding weights to the sled thus adding mass to the system.  the added mass has a negative power curve associated with the acceleration of the system, and the error bars in the graph were too small to be seen meaning that there was little error in our measurements.  after comparing the results of our data with that of another group, it was discovered that our data agreed with that of the other group.  the data was then compared to a second groups findings, in which the data once again agreed.

 in lab 6 the tilt of the air track was changed, this was done by adding more supports under the track on one end thus causing it to get steeper.  the tilt of the track has a positive linear correlation with the acceleration of the system, and as the tilt increases so does the acceleration.  the error bars in the graph were too small to be seen meaning that there was little error in our measurements.  after comparing the results of our data with that of another group, it was discovered that our data agreed with that of the other group.  the data was then compared to a second groups findings, in which the data once again agreed.  the theoretical equation for the acceleration and the experimental mathematical model is .  the experimental mathematical model supports the theoretical model because with both, the force would have a linear relationship to acceleration.  the enhanced theoretical equation is .  

in the case of a heavy string, as the cart would move further, more of the string would technically be hanging off meaning that the force would increase as the cart moves further, and so the acceleration would theoretically increase exponentially as more string is hanging.  there was not much room for error as the devices used to measure our acceleration values was computerized.  possible error that could exist though is in the capturing of the data after it is recorded, if the data highlighted isn’t all accurate and a point that isn’t accurate is captured then error could exist.  this could be reduced by only highlighting data that is accurate to the results, aka the data in the middle of the slope.  some of the generalizations of the lab were that each of the groups used the same cart with the same weights and everything the same and so data from one group could line up with data from another group.  in conclusion, amongst the three variables, force applied to the system, mass added to the system, and the tilt of the track, force and tilt created a positive linear correlation between the variables and acceleration, and the mass being added to the system created a negative power curve on the graph.