conclusion:

the research question that is overall being investigated within the experiment of how length, weight, and angle affect the period of a pendulum was what variables when changed will directly affect the period of the pendulum.

the three different trials that were ran in the experiment were the trials of, varying length of string, varying weight of the pendulum, and varying the angle of release of the pendulum. each group discovered when the trials were running that the angle of release and varying weight had no effect on the period of the pendulum itself. although all the groups did discover though that varying the length of string of the pendulum did directly affect the period in seconds. these claims were able to be made by the graphs of the angle and weight trial produced the results of a horizontal line being able to be drawn through all the points of data or through all of the error bars, while the graph of the length trial a horizontal line was not able to be drawn showing that each point of data held its own place meaning the varying lengths affected the period.

the theoretical model given was $t=0.995 l$. when this equation was taken and compared to our experimental data, we were able to see that the graphs of the weight and angle trials once again had no affect on the period of the pendulum resulting in their graphs not forming a power curve corresponding to the theoretical model, but the length trial did directly affect the period of the pendulum and its graph did model the power curve like the theoretical model and our graph was able to produce a very similar equation to that of theoretical model, which was $t=0.954216 l$.  along with our experimental model we were able to confirm that our results were correct by comparing the equation to other groups equations, where they seemed to get very similar values of $t=0.868686 l$ and $t=2.1105 l^{0.4206}$ showing that all of our results were close to the theoretical model.

the errors that were present in our experiment of testing what effects the period of a pendulum were in the systematic area is  the weights of the pendulum not having the exact weight recorded, due to the fact that through normal and repeated use they could have slightly lost weight by material being rubbed off over time. in the random error category is  the angle of the pendulum release could have been slightly off, timing of the stopwatch could have not been exactly precise, the string length could vary from the recorded value when weight was added, and the tape measure could have had bends or creases in it when measuring the length of the string. the ways that these errors were reduced were that in the third lab instead of using stopwatches to time the pendulum’s swing a photogate was used to get precise timing of the complete swing of the pendulum. other than using the photogate the errors also could have been reduced by using brand new weights that have never been worn to have the exact weight that is listed in them, and a new tape measure could have been used to reduce the number of bends or creases it had in it. 

constraints that were present within the experiment that was conducted was that the angles of release that we had to do were small angles that could not exceed 15 degrees,  along with the mass that was available the maximum amount of weight that could be used in the experiment was 250 grams, and finally the length of string that could be used the maximum length that could be measured was 200 cm due to the fact that anything larger than 200 cm would be touching the ground and a measurement could not be made.