conclusion:

	the purpose of these two labs were to create mathematical models that explain the behavior of a real system, as opposed to a theoretical system. also, the three experiments help to develop a physical meaning for each variable and numerical value in the models of the real system. in these systems, the mathematical model in figure 1 holds true if the mass of the system is 0.3397kg, figure 2 holds true if the force of gravity on the string is 0.147n, and figures 3, 4, and 5 hold true if the mass of the system is 0.3388kg, and all figures also only hold true if the gravitational constant is 9.8m/s^2.

	each mathematical model determined in figures 1 through 5 was created using the line of best fit. each trendline equation was compared for each figure using the r^2 value as accuracy to the true mathematical model, and led to figures 1, 3,4, and 5 being linear trendlines, and a power series trendline in figure 2. these physical values are consistent with newton’s second law $f=m a$. the physical values of the linear trendline in figures 1, 3, 4, and 5 all align to similar values based off of the equation. since the line is plotted with acceleration on the y-axis, and the force of gravity on the string, acting as the net force of the system, on the x-axis, the slope of the trendline is a/f. using newton’s equation, the physical value of the trendlines in figures 1, 3, 4, and 5 should be equal to the inverse of the mass of the system, with the units of kg^-1. this value in figure 1 should be equal to 2.944kg^-1, and the true slope of the line reflects this conclusion since its value is 2.6202kg^-2. for figures 3, 4, and 5, since the mass of the system is 0.3388kg, the slope of the line should be 2.952kg^-1, and its actual trendline slope of figures 3, 4, and 5 are as follows is  2.8717kg^-1, 2.8911kg^-1, and 2.8995kg^-1. the physical value of the y-intercept of these values is equivalent to the sum of the outside forces acting upon the system, and is supported through the relative values of figures 3, 4, and 5. in experiment three, the value of the angle of the track was changed between tables 3, 4, and 5, which would effect the net force of the outside forces due to the normal force having an x-component due to the angle of the track. the track was tilted towards the pulley for figures 3 and 4, but tilted away in figure 5. if the y-intercept is truly equal to the sum of the outside forces of the system, then both the trendlines in figures 3 and 4 must have a greater y-intercept value than the trendline of figure 5. this is supported, as the y-intercepts of figures 3, 4, and 5 are as follows is  -0.0011n, 0.0331n, and -0.0481n. therefore, with the input being the force of gravity on the string, and the output being the acceleration of the system, these trendlines in figures 1, 3, 4, and 5 support newton’s second law. for the physical values of figure 2, since the equation has the input of the mass of the system, and an output as the acceleration of the system, than $a=\frac{f}{m}$, so the input of the mass of the entire system must have a power of -1, and the coefficient of the input must be the constant force of gravity on the string in order to obey newton’s law. the trendline of figure 2 has an exponent on the input of -1.423, which is near the ideal value of -1, and the coefficient of 0.0825n is near the true constant of the force of gravity on the string, 0.147n. therefore, figures 1 through 5 all support newton’s second law, no matter the inputs or output values.

	both figure 6 and figure 7 support the conclusions of the trendlines above, as figure 6 and 7 represents the data from figures 3, 4, and 5. the models in figure 6 support that the inverse of the mass the system is the slope of the line since it is consistent throughout each model listed, as it is held constant in the experiment. the models in figure 6 also support that the y-intercept is related to the sum of the outside forces due to the fact that the largest height has an intercept of 1.648n, and the track angled in the opposite direction of the motion has the smallest intercept of -0.866n. although the findings of figure 7 appear to be linear, which does not support my conclusion, the y-intercepts are supported. the model with the smallest friction has an intercept of -0.2107n, and the model with the largest friction has an intercept of -04809n, which follows my conclusion. 

	several possible systematic and random errors could have affected the data on the tables 1 through 5. in the first and second experiment, possible systematic error could have been present due to the levelness of the track. if the track was angled towards the pulley even slightly, the acceleration values would be skewed to be above their true values, and the opposite is true if the track was angled away from the pulley. this can be reduced through the use of a leveling system before the experiment to reduce the possible skew. the friction of the track could also skew the data to be lower than their true values since friction always acts against the motion of the system. this friction may have increased at higher speeds due to the nature of the air powered track, leading to a possible skew in the slope, and lower values than calculated. this can be reduced through the cart hovering magnetically, instead of using air particles, reducing the metal on metal contact of the previous experiments through electromagnetism. possible random errors in these experiments could be the air resistance on the motion of the cart being random after every attempt throughout all experiments. this can be reduced through the use of the test being conducted in a vacuum chamber, where air particles are too few to have a major effect on the motion.