conclusion:
 research question: what variable will change the period of a pendulum?
each of the 3 experiments addressed the research question by changing a variable in the experiment to determine if the variable affected the period. the length of the string was changed while the angle and weight were held constant. the angle of release was changed while the weight and length were held constant. the weight was changed while the angle and length were held constant. all these experiments addressed the research question.

the claims we were able to determine is that the angle of release and length of the string both affect the period of the pendulum. the larger the angle of release and the longer the length of the string, the longer the period. the graphs shown above best represent our claims we put a line running through our points to make it more obvious the positive slope of the line representing the increase in one of those variables meant an increase in the period. the claims is not for certain since the error bars overlap slightly but we can say it is likely that the variables of length and angle do increase the period although it can’t be 100% confirmed. while on the other hand the mass of the object attached did not affect the period of the pendulum. the graph for the weight, you can notice how the error bars overlap significantly. meaning that no claim can be made showing that the weight affects the period. these claims made stand if only one of the variables is being changed while the others remain constant. for example, the length of the string affects the pendulum if the weight and angle are not changed.

 our mathematical model was produced using the trendline in excel then putting an equation to it. using the model shown below we can make the x the independent variable and the y the dependent variable. with our r value being in the 90s for both the length and angle graph we can say that those graphs are highly respectable in terms of truthfulness. our mass graph was not a great value meaning that the graph for that was not as consistent or right. 

 both systematic and random error were in our experiment. the random errors include human error on using the stopwatch, the person catching the object, and the angle done by the human eye for release. a systematic was noticed that on the back of stopwatch it said it was within .04 seconds of the actual value. also, the protractors were very beat up and could have been warped. to reduce these errors, we used 2 stop watches to get a more exact value. we also had 2 people look at the protractor before release and measured the length of the string several times. in the future you could use the photogate from the beginning to get an exact value. you could also increase the number of trials taken to get better more consistent numbers.

a constraint in this experiment was time. if you could have more time than you could perform more trials all round whether that be with different angles and lengths. also if we would have been allowed to use photogate technology at the beginning instead of the last day of the experiment. it would of allowed us to get better result, to make more backed claims.