discussion and conclusion:
the purpose of these labs has been to develop a real, mathematical model that depicts what happens to the acceleration of a system as the force applied and mass are changed. additionally, we ran tests to also understand what different values within our models actually represented (such as the slope and y-intercept).

the first two experiments were pretty straightforward when it came to creating a mathematical model for the acceleration of a system. first, we collected data comparing acceleration to force applied (keeping the system mass was constant), and data comparing acceleration to system mass (keeping the force applied constant). with this data, we were able to create excel spreadsheets, generate plots, and then searched for the type function which yielded the highest r-squared value (also calculated by excel which can be seen in the first two plots in this document). the models we discovered were as follows is     $a=3.1 f_a + 0.044$   and   $a = 0.05 m^{-3.1}$ . our calculated constant of 3.1 for the first equation represented the constant mass of the system while we were initially unsure of what was contributing to the negative y-intercept of our linear model. for comparing acceleration and system mass, the constant should represent the applied force (mass*gravity) and the exponent indicates the power relationship between mass and acceleration (it should be -1 but more on that later). to better understand our linear model, we ran an additional experiment that assessed how the slope of the track affects the mathematical relationship. we found that in each trial, our slope was around 2.97 every time. this makes since as mass was kept constant throughout all runs. however, as the slope became more of a hinderance, the y intercept also decreased suggesting that this value was, in fact, a function of the slope in the system.


the first group (group 3) also tested backwards tilt but only provided a verbal conclusion with no models. while this group contributes little to better understanding what the numerical values represent, they do help affirm our conclusion regarding the relationship between tilt and total acceleration. for the second group (group 001), they tested the affect that an increase in friction will have on their model. as the friction increased, their force coefficients also decreased while their y-intercept marginally increased. this data helps affirm our understanding of the y intercept value as this largely remains close to 0 when there is no slope but increases or decreases in value when a slope is present.

we didn’t encounter too much error when working on the model for acceleration vs fa or the models assessing the affect of slope on the y-intercept value. all the results were well within expected values as having an accelerometer to measure allowed us to develop accurate plots. small random errors may have been present in the weighing process, and also when interpreting the results from the accelerometer. there was massive systematic error when working on our acceleration vs mass model! the air pump for our track was underperforming which lead to our cart not being able to hover. therefore friction was introduced to the system when we started working with larger masses (m > 400g) causing our results to become very skewed. this was on top of all the aforementioned random errors  
 as we discovered in lab 05, one of the largest constraints it this experiment is the assumption that there is no friction. when friction is present, results may greatly differ from what is theoretically expected and severely reduce the ability to generalize this model.
 to begin, our model representing acceleration as a function of mass, is fundamentally flawed and thus cannot be properly compared with newtons second law. when solving for acceleration, we found that is  $a =\frac{f}{m}$. when force is kept constant, the root function should be  the model we found was . due to the error in our values, the exponential value is off by a factor of three and in no way an accurate portrayal of newtons second law. however, that is not the case for our model of acceleration vs. applied force. when mass is kept constant, the root function should be of the form . this is the exact linear relationship we found when we collected our data during lab 05 (see first plot). another way of looking at newtons second law is that  which is represented by our found model is  .  this means that 3.0 should be equal to 1/(m). when we plug in our mass was of 0.334 kg we find that 1/0.334 which is 3.0 and that our model accurately represents newtons second law.