discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of the lab is to develop mathematical models that would show the behavior of a real system as well as to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value included in the model. our mathematical models were determined from the data collected in lab 05. the only factor studied that affected acceleration immensely was mass. both masses of the system and the force applied affected the acceleration of the cart. increasing the force with constant mass proportionally increased the acceleration, while increasing the mass with constant force inversely reduced the acceleration. figure 1 shows that as acceleration increases, the applied force too. in figure 2, you can tell that mass and acceleration does not work too well since acceleration decreases as more mass is added. 

 this group conducted the same experiment as we did, but its findings did not agree with what we found. there was another group that had the same experiment, but they left early so we were not able to take a picture of their findings. they stated that “as magnets are added, the force needed to get to a certain acceleration will increase.” my group did not agree because we stated that as magnets were added, the acceleration would decrease, and it is shown in figure 3. the group number was not given to us.

 
this team did not perform the same experiment as my group did. however, the findings made sense. this group claims that “the error value would become larger if they were going increase the tilt of the air table.” we were not able to talk the findings with this team since they left class early. also, the group number was not given to us.

possible random errors could have been the measured mass since the scale could have been used not properly. the cart is another random error because finger prints affect the mass of the system. they were affected since we had to repeat some trials because the data collected did not make any sense or was completely different than the rest. to reduce errors, we tried to touch the system the lest we could so the mass of it would not be too modified. some constraints in this experiment that may have limit the generalizability of my results are the length of the track since we were not able to cover longer distances and periods; another limit was the masses that were connected to the cart. such masses were very small, and i would have liked to apply bigger masses to see bigger differences.

the model found in lab 05 and lab 06 agree with the current model held to be true of newton’s second law of $f =m a$ where when it was rearranged $f =m a$. the mathematical model in lab 05 found was .3471x^-.985. as for the first experiment, the model does again make sense. $f =m a$in which the model found was $f =m a$. for lab 06, newton’s second law states that acceleration is proportional to the net force acting on an object. friction always acts in the opposite direction of motion. therefore, the net force is reduced, and acceleration gets smaller.