discussion and conclusion:

the answer to the question “what affects the period of a small pendulum?” we tested with three different factors in this lab. these were angle of release, mass of the bob, and the length of the string. we initially predicted that angle of release and length would have an impact on the time it takes to the pendulum to complete on complete period, but the mass of the bob would not have and impact. 

	in our prediction we said that the length of the string will impact the period of the pendulum. they would be related to each other by the longer the string then the longer the period will be. figure 1 and figure 4 both prove this to be true. if the error bars on either are doubled to become two standard deviations instead of just one the error bars on the far ends still do not cross each other showing a strong relationship. this can also be proven when looking at figure 4 that was measured with the photogate. the r2 value that was returned for the data was 0.998 which is very close to 1.0 making this a very strong relationship with the power trendline.

	our second prediction involved the angle of release and how it impacts the period. we thought the angle would have an effect on the period by the greater the angle the larger the period. our reasoning for this was that the larger angle would allow the for the pendulum to be in the air for the longer time creating a larger period. in figure 3 this is proved to be half right. the larger angles in figure 3 do have a small impact on the period, but when you only look at the smaller angles it can be see that there is no real affect because when looking at the error bars when they are +/- two standard deviations they cross over each other at the smaller angles making the measurements uncertain.

we predicted that the mass of the bob will not have an impact was because the acceleration on the mass is affected by gravity. gravity is always putting a negative acceleration of 9.81 on the object which should keep the speed the same resulting in the same period. when then tested this claim to find out if we were correct in our thinking, we found that we were indeed correct. in figure 2 it can be seen that the points are almost in a straight line and with the error bars being extended to two standard deviations it shows that there is no relationship between the period and the mass.

the theoretical mathematical model for a pendulum period is   . in this theoretical model it only has three different variables. these are t(period), l(length), and g(gravity). gravity on earth is a constant of -9.81m/s^2 because this is a constant it does not influence the period. the only other variable that will affect the period(t) is length. this agrees with our experiment results from figure 4 that show the relationship between period and the string length. our mathematical model can be seen from figure 4 which is . the model we came up also only has a variable for length that can affect the period.

we had one error that was not easy for us to control. this was trying to use the stopwatch to time the period. this is very had to be precise with our measurements because of the human error involved. we tried to reduce this error by having three of us all use stopwatches to time the period. we then would take the average of all 3 to get the closest to actually period time we could. if we had one person with a value that was way off from the other two, we would redo that trial. when we used the photogate on the third lab period, it allowed us to get significantly more accurate results. 

a few more of the errors we might have had were that the string measurements could have been misread or were not measured from the same place every time. for example, all the trials except the initial string length test, the string lengths were measured from just under the bar supporting the string to the bottom of the bob to get the full length of the string, but when someone else in the group measured the length instead, they might have measured to the top of the mass. 

the first test of string length vs. pendulum period we had a systematic error of only measuring to the top of the mass instead of the bottom. in return this put all our data off by the same amount for our first test. after we completed this test, we realized we should have measured to the bottom of the mass to get the full length which is what we did for all the remaining tests.

another random error we could have had was that there could have been a difference in trying to measure the angle before each trial. if the protractor was not perfectly perpendicular to the bar holding the string, then the measurement of the angle would have been off. 

a constraint we had that impacted our data was the equipment we had to work with. for measuring angles, we had a protractor which made it hard to be consistent with each trial. for measuring the period, we had to use stopwatches for most the experiments which were affected by our reaction time. finally, to measure the length we used a tape measure which worked fairly well but was hard to be consistent with each measurement. if we had better equipment like we did with the photogate we could have a much lower level of uncertainty.

one of the biggest constraints we had in this experiment that caused not to be able to collect all the data we would have liked because of time. we only had around two hours to get one person to get started on writing the lab record and the others to start doing the experiment while answering questions at the same time for the lab record. we got better at this by the third lab period, but if we would have had more time, we could have collected more data by doing more trials for each factor being tested. not being able to collect more data is what causes our data to more generalized.