discussion and conclusion



the purpose of lab 05 was to develop mathematical models which describe the behavior of a real system. the purpose of lab 06 was to develop an understanding of each numerical value included in the model.

in lab 05 we performed two experiments that helped us show that each of the terms in the mathematical needs to be an acceleration value for the output value to be acceleration. in lab 06, we were able to see what the different terms represent physically. the coefficient term represents the total mass of the system, this explains why this term was different in figure 1 (.0028) and 2 (.0029), but the same for figure 3, 4, and 5 (.0028). the y-intercept term is the acceleration caused by outside forces. this was found in lab 06 when the slope of the path was changed, and, therefore, the outside forces were changed because there was an extra component of gravity either going with or opposing the motion of the cart, depending on the slope. the negative-slope graph had the smallest y-intercept value (-0.096), and the positive-slope graph has the largest y-intercept value (-0.0138), with the zero-slope graph having a y-intercept between them (-0.055).

the first picture (left), is from a group that did the same experiment as us in lab 06, they had a similar conclusion and results as our group, which increases our confidence in our conclusion and in our interpretation of the data.
the second picture (right), is from a group that did the other experiment, with magnets, in lab 06. their data and models increase our confidence in the understanding of the y-intercept values because as they added more magnets the y-intercept value decreased, which means that the magnets opposed the motion of the cart more, similar to our experiment where the slope caused gravity to either help or oppose the motion of the cart. their data decreases our confidence in the understanding of the coefficient term because based on our conclusion, we would expect all their coefficient values to be the same.

some of the errors that may be present in this experiment are the error in the velocity reader, and balance. there is a small amount of systematic error in the velocity reader, in the future we could perform more trials, to get a large sample size and minimize the error or use a different tool to measure the velocity that will result in less error. there could also have been error in the balance we used to measure the mass of the fishing bobs, in the future we could calibrate the scale before using it to ensure that the values we are recording are accurate.

one constraint in this experiment that limits the generalizability is that there were some outside forces that were acting on the system even when the slope was zero. in perfect conditions, the only force acting on the system would be gravity and the applied force. another constraint is that we were using small masses, so the behavior of the system might change with larger masses.

in lab 06, we kept the system mass constant but were changing the applied force. when the mass is constant, and the force is being increased, that would cause the acceleration to increase, which is what we observed. also, by using newton’s second law and knowing that each term in the equation must be an acceleration value, we can determine that the units for the coefficient of the first term is 1/kg. the models from lab 05, have the same linear correlation, so the same rationale as was stated above applies to them.