conclusion:
The question that was being investigated throughout this lab was what variables affect the period of a pendulum. The first experiment was to explore the different variables that could affect the pendulum such as how much weight is on the end of it, the angle the pendulum swings, and how long the pendulum is. The experiment was when we tested all our variables and got used to using excel and form a hypothesis for each part. The hypothesis made for angle and mass were proven to be false, while the length hypothesis was proven true. The graphs made in part one would carry through the rest of the experiment and determine whether the independent variable was related to the dependent. We determined that the only variable that affected the pendulum was the length of the string. 
Experiment two was meant to go back through lab one and discover what error we could have done to prevent accurate answers for which variables affect the pendulum. We discovered the types of errors and how to make error bars to determine the range of error. Throughout this lab, we determined how the error bars for length vs time as being so small that the graph does not have any causing the data to be accurate while mass and angle have large error bars.
Finally, for lab three we stated the conditions for when our study holds true, such as the angle being below 30 degrees, and used a power best-fit line for our length vs time graph. This power best-fit line displayed how well it went through all the points which determined a correlation since we used the more accurate measuring tool referred to as a photogate.
 The equation my group found was $y=0.83544 x$ which fits perfectly into our graph. As mentioned in part b the equation runs through all our points and proves the correlation between length of a pendulum and the time it takes to do a full period. 
Above are the errors that were discussed within my group. We could have easily fixed most of these errors by simply having one person recording times and different parts of measurement. Also, we could have had someone double check before proceeding.  The only error we could not have fixed would be if the measurement tools were messed with at all and that the pole was not perfectly straight up.