discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this lab was to develop mathematical models to describe the behavior of a cart-hanging mass system on a frictionless track and to determine the meaning of each variable and numerical value of the developed mathematical models.

in the first experiment, we were attempting to determine the mathematical model for how the hanging mass affects the acceleration. the mass of the system was kept constant, so between the trials we just moved the bobs from the cart to the end of the string hanging off the pulley. all of our data was recorded in table 1.2, and then in excel we took the hanging mass and the average acceleration of the trials to create the graph and mathematical model in figure 1. thus, our model is $a=2.9057 m - 0.0211$ where a is acceleration measured in m/s^2 and m is mass measured in kg. it can be observed in table 1.2 that the mass of the system was 0.34005 kg, and 1/0.34005 which is 2.9407 which is approximately the coefficient in the mathematical model. the second experiment was attempting to find a mathematical model for how the mass of the cart affects its acceleration. the hanging mass was kept constant, so the total mass changed when bobs were added/removed from the cart. the data was recorded in table 2.2 and then in excel we put in the masses of the cart and the accelerations to get the graph and model in figure 2. the model is $a = -1.4062 m + 0.7209$, again where a is acceleration in m/s^2 and m is mass measured in kg. in the third experiment, our data was collected similarly to how it was collected in the first experiment, with the addition of backwards tilt, recorded in table 3.1, table 3.2, and table 3.3. put into excel, we got the graphs and models in figure 3, where it can be observed that the models all have similar coefficients, but different intercepts. thus, we can infer that the intercept represents how much the track is tilted.


group a experimented with forwards tilt. in their models, the coefficients also stayed basically the same, while their intercepts increased with increasing tilt. this confirms our inference that the intercept represents how much the track is tilted. a positive intercept means it is tilted forwards while a negative intercept means it is tilted backwards.

group b experimented with adding magnets to their cart which would implement a retarding force. with a retarding force, the net force would be lower, and according to newton’s second law of motion, the acceleration would also be lower. this is reflected in their data in both the coefficients and the intercepts. more magnets and more retarding force result in lower coefficients and more negative intercepts, which adds to the inference that the coefficient is related to the forces acting on the cart.

random error may have included misreading the balance to measure the mass. systematic error may have been that the scale wasn’t properly calibrated. combining these, if it was an over-reading, the slope would have been steeper than it should be, and if it was an under-reading, the slope would’ve been less steep than it should be. to reduce this error, we could have multiple people look and make sure it is calibrated to 0, and then also have multiple people mass everything and average their readings. other random error would be if the mass was unevenly distributed on the cart (all the bobs on one side versus being split up) which would’ve made the cart lean to the heavier side and might rub against the track and add friction, and would’ve decreased the acceleration. to reduce this error, we made sure to fairly evenly space out the bobs on the cart and rearranged them each time another bob was added/removed to keep them evenly spread out.

the system is not completely frictionless. even if there isn’t contact between the cart and the track, there is friction in the pulley and there is air resistance. this constrains the experiment because it requires a larger hanging mass than it would without friction (without friction, any hanging mass, even just a short length of the string with no bob, would cause an acceleration). also, if there isn’t enough mass hanging in the tilt experiments, as the cart moves the string might not spin the pulley and the sensor wouldn’t read the acceleration accurately. there cannot be too much hanging mass because it could break the string, and there can’t be too much mass on the cart because then the air wouldn’t be able to lift it off the track, plus the balance wouldn’t be able to read anything more than 610 g. 

rearranging newton’s second law, $f=m_{system} a$, you get $a = \frac{f}{m_{system}}$. in our model for constant msystem, the coefficient of the variable was approximately equal to 1/msystem. in our model for the varying msystem, f is kept constant, which is the force of the weight if the hanging mass.