discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of the first lab was to find mathematical models to describe the relationship between force and acceleration and one between mass and acceleration.  the purpose of the second lab was to use the force-acceleration relationship to develop and understanding of how the tilt of the track impacts the acceleration of the car and its influence on the mathematical model.

for the two experiments in lab 05, we tested the relationships between force and acceleration and mass and acceleration by running multiple tests with different weights on the end of the string and different weights on the car.  we calculated the force values by multiplying the masses on the end of the string by the gravitational acceleration, 9.8 m/s^2.  the resulting data of the two experiments are found in table 3 and table 4.  the data was then graphed in figures 1 and 2 and the mathematical models were found through the graph.  in figure 1, the x represents the force while y represents the acceleration.  the physical meaning of the constants is that they represent the force of mass on the system.  the constants show how much the acceleration will increase as the force increases.  in figure 2, the x represents the mass while y represents the acceleration.  the constants represent the acceleration determined by the mass on the system and how much the acceleration decreases as the mass increases.  

for the experiment in lab 06, we tested the relationship between the angle of the track and the acceleration by running multiple tests with different heights of angles on either side of the track in order to have positive and negative angles.  the resulting data of the experiment is found in tables 5 and 6.  the data was then graphed in figures 3 and 4 and the mathematical models were found through the graphs.  the x represents the force, while y represents the acceleration in each model.  the constants were revealed to be affected by angle of the track because the slopes of the lines remained the same, but the y-intercepts changed as the angles changed.  

        figure 1                                             figure 2



figure 1 from group 6 is testing the tilt of the track like our group.  like our results, the slope remains constant for all of their models, while the y-intercept changes.  therefore, as the angle increases, the acceleration decreases.  figure 2 from group 2 tests the friction of the track on the car and its effect on the acceleration.  similarly, the slope remains constant while the y-intercept changes.  these results help verify that the y-intercept is influenced by the tilt and amount of friction on the car.

a systematic error that may have been present is the scale might have been off by a little bit.  it could make a small difference if we calibrated the balance before doing any experiments.  another systematic error could have been the measurement of the distance of the car from the end of the track.  we could have verified the measurements by using another device to measure it.  a random error that could have occurred is the placement of the car on the track.  there could have been a small variability of the exact distance we placed the car at each trial.  we could adjust for this by either doing more trials and getting more precise results or getting multiple viewpoints of where to place the car.  

the largest angle we used was a height of 9 cm in either direction so our mathematical model is only generalizable to those angles within these heights.  the largest force we used was 392 n and the largest mass we used was 400 grams so any values outside of these can’t be generalized by our mathematical model.

according to newton’s second law, , acceleration is directly related to force and inversely related to mass.  as you can see in figure 1, force vs. acceleration, the data has a positive correlation, meaning it is directly related.  however, in figure 2, mass vs. acceleration, the data has a negative correlation, so it is inversely related.  both of these models are consistent with newton’s second law.