discussion and conclusion

research question: what impacts the period of a pendulum?

	at the beginning of the lab we hypothesized that there were three potential influences on the period of the pendulum. these included the mass of the bob, the length of the string, and the angle of release. we first tested the angle of release and its effect on the period. we kept the mass at 150 grams and the length of the string at 24 inches throughout the trials so that they would not alter our results. table 4 shows our results, along with the averages we found. graph 1 shows the plotted data points and their error bars. the data proved to be conclusive that the angle of release did not in fact effect the period of the pendulum.

	for our second experiment we tested whether the mass effected the period of the pendulum. we kept the angle of release constant at 15 degrees from straight down and kept the length at 24 inches. we decreased the mass of the bob by 20 grams for each trial. our results are documented in table 5. graph 2 displays that the error bars of each point overlap, concluding that the mass had no effect on the period of the pendulum.

	our final hypothesis was that the length of the pendulum. we started the pendulum at 24 inches and decreased the length by 2 inches after collecting enough data at that length. we kept the mass at 150 grams and kept the angle of release at 15 degrees. our initial data resulted in us concluding that it had no effect on the period of the pendulum. we went back and tested this hypothesis with more extreme values resulting in our data in table 7. after plotting the data, we concluded that the length of the pendulum effected the period. graph 4 shows our plotted data points along with our error bars, which were reduced to .001 because we used an electronic timer rather than a hand-held stopwatch. 

	we found that the trendline for our data in graph 4 was . the data we found for each experiment fluctuated around the period associated with the length of 0.6096 m which, if plugged into the equation gives out a period of 1.74 seconds. this is because the only factor that influenced the pendulum was ultimately the length.

	there were multiple errors that occurred during our experiments. the errors we faced included stopping the stopwatch accurately, measuring out the length of the string, and pulling to an exact angle each time. the accuracy of the stopwatch, a random error, was increased when we got the electronic timer to measure the period rather than having a human eyeball when the bob had completed a period. the error went from .5 to .001 which greatly increased our accuracy. to account for measuring the length, a systematic error, we made sure to fasten the top screw when the metal tip of the tape measure was fully extended so that the measurements were as consistent as possible. to make sure that we had the same angle each time we always made sure that the far edge of the string was on the line of the angle we wished to use as the angle of release. this systematic error made it so that each angle was off by the same amount each time.

	the constraints we faced were a lack of stronger string and more mass to attach to the bob. if we had more extreme masses as well as sting strong enough to hold it, we may have eventually found a correlation between the mass of the bob and the period of the pendulum.