discussion and conclusion: 



	the purpose of this lab was to experiment the relationship of mass, force and acceleration on a system in order to determine mathematical models that represent what would occur in a “real system”. in order to do this, many experiments were completed. we first tested how mass of the cart would impact the acceleration, shown in tables 1 and 2, as well as figure 1. then, how mass of the hanging object, also known as the force on the cart would impact the acceleration of the cart, shown in tables 3 and 4, as well as figure 2. finally, we tested how changing the amount of friction interacting with the cart would impact the acceleration of the cart, shown in tables 5-10, as well as figures 3-5. through all of this, we were able to develop mathematical models. 

	with the help of software used in class as well as the triple beam balance and the machine of which held our cart and created a frictionless surface, we were able to generate mathematical models for each situation. when plotting our data gathered into excel, we used it to create our mathematical models. we can conclude that the mathematical models that we determined were fairly close to accurate because our error bars are too small to be seen. we were also able to compare our results to other groups around us that did similar experiments and we all generated mathematical models that were similar to each others. 

	while comparing our mathematical models to other team’s it helped us to prove that the information and mathematical models that we had collected proved to be correct. group 2 also tested the same research question as our group and got similar results, shown in picture 3. their group also received mathematical models that showed how there is a negative relationship between the force of friction and the acceleration of a system. group 5 (team 1 on white board) tested a different research question regarding the forward tilt or change in force of gravity compared to the impact it had on the acceleration also got mathematical models similar to ours, shown in picture 4. comparing our findings to other groups helped us to solidify our results and reassure us that we were able to successfully complete this experiment. 

	as with any experiment, there is always a possibility for error. a random error that could have occurred include air flow not properly flowing from the track that created the frictionless surface. if this occurred the amount of friction in our system would be inaccurate. some other errors include human error with measuring and error within readings on the computer software used. some of the systematic errors that could have occurred include, not checking that the track was properly balanced, balancing out the mass in the system by adding bobbers to the cart when removing them from the hanging, and possibly even difference in shape of bobber. these errors could be fixed by measuring to ensure that the track is level, redoing the first part of the experiment and adding bobbers to the cart as we removed the from the hanging to ensure that the mass of the system is remaining constant, and checking that all the bobbers are purchased from the same company to at least reduce the chance of them varying in shape. by redoing and experiment with these changes, it could help to reduce the amount of error within the collected data. 

	a constraint with this experiment included only having a limited number of bobbers and weights. only having access to 8 bobbers limited us to how many we were able to add or remove to the hanging end of the system. if we had more of these then we would be able to gather more information with which would help to make our data more accurate. we ran into the same constraint with the weights. we were only given a certain amount of different weights of varying sized. if we had more options we would be able to run more trials and use greater varying weights to gather more data which would also help to make the information collected more accurate. 

	our mathematical models compare to newton’s second law because the numerical value in our mathematical model 1, $a=2.8073 f + 0.037$ represented 1/m in the system and the numerical value in our mathematical model 2, $a=\frac{0.3227}{m^{0.91}}$ represents the force of the system. the variables and the way that they relate are all consistent with newton’s second law and how these forces are believed to interact with one another. 

