discussion and conclusion

the research question that was investigated in this lab was if either mass, angle of release, and/ or length of string influenced the period of the pendulum. the first lab, introduction to experimental design, addressed the research question by conducting the experiment and noticing if such variables influenced the period of the pendulum. we agreed that the angle and mass would not influence the period of the pendulum, as you can tell by figure 1.0 and figure 2.0. this claim is valid under all circumstances or measurements for mass and angle. we also agreed that the length of the string would have an influence on the period of the pendulum and as you can see on figure 3.0, the graph is linear which can conclude that length influences the period. on the second lab, introduction to error analysis, i used the website that was required to make-up the lab. this lab focused on determining if our predictions were either true or not. by conducting the experiment, i noticed that my predictions on the first lab were correct. on the third lab, creating mathematical models, we just investigated if the length did not influence the period and it did not. on the second lab, we learned that when creating a graph and putting error bars on it that if the error bars overlap, the values are completely correct.

 we experimented the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the model on the three experiments. my group did not have any problem with this because both our data and graphs showed that there was no mathematical error or difficulty on the influence of the period. our data fits the model because when putting error bars, as figure 4.0 and figure 5.0 shows, the bars overlapped for the graphs that we stated had no impact on the period. on the third experiment, we completely went through the theoretical mathematical model for the dependent variable is  length of the string. we also checked the error bars and as you can see on figure 7.0, they are not very visible because our data, table 5.0, is close to the true value. however, in this experiment we still were able to realize that the length of the string influences the period of the pendulum.

possible errors on the angle vs. period graph and mass vs. period graph could be a scale error by the fact that the device used, timer, had a large amount of numbers as its answer so we had to round/estimate the value to report. some possible errors on the length vs. period graph could have been random errors because the length of the rope fell between two lines of the ruler and the measurement could be above or below the true value. random and systematic errors can be reduced by zeroing the scale when nothing is on it and/or by repeating the measurements and taking the average or refining the measurement or technique.

constrains in this experiment that may have limited the generalizability of my results are the height of the table and the mass of the pendulum. the height of the table did not allow us to conduct more trails with bigger length for the string. also, we couldn’t add more mass because we were not given more. i would have like to see where the results would have been if we had bigger gaps between each data point to make sure our predictions were completely correct.