conclusion:

the research that was being conducted was what variables are the dependent, independent, and controlled variables in one period of a pendulum. we wanted to test how greatly mass, angle, and string length effected the time it takes for a pendulum to swing away and back to the point in which it had started its motion.

	in the first experiment we had tested all three variables to gather a collected amount of data on how each variable changes the time of the period. in this experiment we had conducted three different tests, one with angle and length being constant while the mass changed. another one with mass and angle constant while length changed. finally, one where mass and length were constant while angle was changing. in this experiment we had conclude that string length was is the independent variable. we believe this because our data shows that when the length changes the time of the period increases. in the second experiment we tested our data from the first experiment by creating standard deviations among the data. with this we had decided that our data was accurate and that our conclusion from the first experiment had been supported with a 95% confidence level. then in the third and final experiment we took the string length and tested the difference in time it took to complete a period and the length of the sting. then we had the length set at a constant and let it swing for about ten second, we then took the average of the periods. the data we had collected in the experiments had supported our conclusion on the fact that string length was the variable that effected the time of the pendulum period.

	the theoretical model suggest that only length has an affect on the period of the pendulum, this is supported with the equation that tells time based on the various lengths of the string. this equation is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. while the mathematical model that we had come up with based on our data, has slight differences. the data in the graphs show that while yes the length does affect the period of the pendulum, so does the angle in which the weight is released.

	the errors of this experiment were mainly human errors, these had included the time it had taken from when the pendulum had been released and the time when the stop watch was pressed, as well as when it had reached the end point, with the stop watch being stopped. some of the other errors ay have included the tower in which the string was being held, had moved slightly without us noticing, while we were preforming the test. these had been reduced in the third experiment by using a sensor that would measure the time it took to complete a period, and we had also observed the tower to monitor if it had moved at any time throughout the experiment.

	in this experiment, there had been only one constraint in this experiment which was gravity. gravity is the only variable that had taken effect in all test but could not be changed. gravity had remained constant through all three experiments. this had generalized the result by having this universal variable that could not be manipulated.