discussion and conclusion
our goal for lab 05 and lab 06 was to determine what affects acceleration of a system and how the variable affects the acceleration.  the three independent variables that we tested were the force applied (newtons), the mass (grams), and the angle of the system (degrees).  our dependent variable was the acceleration, and, in each experiment, the other independent variables were held constant as control variables.  each experiment had eight trials, and each trend line had an r^2 value of no more than 5 hundredths indicating that our trend line fit our data very well.  in our graphs, the error bars are too small to be seen, also indicative of good data.
in lab 05, experiment one, we tested the force applied as our independent variable.  in this experiment, the bobbers were moved from the sled to the string to increase the force applied without changing the mass of the system to see how it changed the acceleration based off the readings from the rotary motion detector.  because no bobbers were removed from the system, only relocated, the overall mass of the system remained the same. in this experiment, the mass was kept constant of at 340 grams. after eight trials we observed a proportional correlation; as the force applied increased, the acceleration increased.  after inputting our data into excel, we found the equation $y=2.4033 x + 0.076$ with an r^2 value of 0.9794 where y was the acceleration in m/s^2 and x was the force applied in newtons.  this made sense as according to newton’s second law, $f=m a$.  in our case, as the force applied increased, because our mass stayed the same, the acceleration would have to increase as well to keep the equation balanced.
for lab 05, experiment two, our independent variable was the overall mass of the system.  in this experiment, we kept the hanging mass the same at 0.38024 n and increased the mass in increments of 50 grams.  we increased the mass of the system by adding weights to the sled, thus increasing the total mass of the system.  after eight trials, we determined a negative correlation; as the system mass increases, we determined that the data was inversely proportional, as the system mass increased, the acceleration decreased.  we inputted the data into excel and found the equation $y=472.21 x^{1.05}$ where y was the acceleration in m/s^2 and x is the mass of the system in grams.  our r^2 value was 0.9908.  relating to newton’s second law, $f=m a$, this made sense because as the mass increases, the force applied has to increase to keep the acceleration the same, and because we did not increase the force applied, the acceleration decreased as a result.  
in lab 06, we tested the effects of changing the angle of the system and the acceleration.  to do so, we added shims to either end of the air track and calculated the angle, which was our independent variable.  acceleration remained our dependent variable and the control variable was the total system mass which remained at 340 g.  after testing three different angles, each with eight different force applied values.  comparing a test with one angle compared to a test of a larger angle of the same force applied value, it is apparent that the larger the incline angle (so that the rotary motion sensor is elevated), leads to a smaller acceleration.  this makes sense because gravity acts on both the force applied as well as the sled.  because the sled wants to slide downwards, the force has to be greater to overcome the mass of the sled and because the mass was unchanged, the force applied had to be greater to keep the same acceleration as a compared to a test with flat ground.  our experiment with an incline angle of 0.267 degrees had the equation $y=2.8534 x-0.0664$ and an r^2 value of 0.9964.  our experiment with an incline angle of 0.444 degrees resulted in the equation $y=2.7872 x-0.0723$ with an r^2 value of 0.9977 and our experiment with a decline angle of 0.444 degrees had an equation of $y=2.8213 x+0.0713$ and an r^2 value of 0.9997.  
when comparing data from other teams in lab 05, group 03 and group 06 had similar data in that experiment one’s equation was linear and experiment two’s model was exponential, and both teams had similar r^2 values to ours.  although our coefficients were different, it could be that either of our experiments had an unaccounted for error.  when comparing data from lab 06, group 03’s and group 02’s data was very similar to ours, in trendline style and coefficients.  neither group provided an r^2 value.
the error in these experiments would most likely have been systematic from the rotary motion detector as even though the sigma values were small, they were still non zero.  also, we assumed that the rotary motion detector and the air track provided frictionless surfaces and although the coefficients of friction would be low, air resistance was unaccounted for.  
the major constraints of the experiments was the equipment because we did not know if the rotary motion sensor was properly calibrated, hence the possible systematic error.  differences in calibration may have also contributed to the differences in models from group to group.  
the assumptions that we made was that air resistance and friction were negligible.