discussion and conclusion 

the question that was being investigated in this experiment was “what affects the period of a pendulum swing?”. in this experiment there were three different variables that were tested. the independent variables were the mass of the bob, the length of string used, and the angle that the bob was released. when investigation the affect that the mass of the bob had on the period of the pendulum. figure 1 shows the graph that was produced and it was concluded that there was no correlation between the two variables. it was also determined that there was no correlation between the angle of release as is shown in figure 3. although for the angle of release when a larger angle is used there seems to be some correlation. there are a lot of other factors that could play a role when using a larger angle and it was determined that this variable could still be eliminated.  for both the mass of the bob and the angle of release there was a large error bar on the graphs as shown and described in figured 1 and 3. the last variable that was tested was the length of string. for this factor we determined that there was a positive linear correlation between the two variables as shown in figure 2. the data of the length of the string versus time had the largest error bars of all three sets of data with  -0.157. due to there being such a large error bar it makes the results less reliable. in order to confirm that there was a correlation between the length of string and time a second experiment was created. for this experiment a photogate was used to record the time and a larger set of data was used. in this data the error bars are so small that they cannot be seen on the graph but it was +/- 0.001. the results as shown in figure 4 confirm that there was a correlation, but it was actually a power function and not linear like originally concluded. this combined with the lower error helps to prove that the length of string does have an affect on the period of the pendulum. 



	the theoretical mathematical model for a pendulum swing is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. in this equation l is the length of string for the pendulum, t represents time, and g is gravity on earth which is 9.8 m/s^2. the equation for our data that is shown in figure 4 line of best fit was represented by the function $t = 2.00031 x^{0.50139}$. in this case t is still representative of time and x is the length of string used. when analyzing the equation it is very similar to the theoretical in that the coefficient is approximately 2 and that variable representing time is to approximately one half which is the same as square root. also, for the graph shown in figure 4 the r^2 value was 0.9998, which means that the line of best fit is almost perfect with the data used. when looking at figures 1 and 3 it further proves that there is no correlation between the mass of the bob and the angle of release. figure 4 represents the theoretical mathematical model and figures 1 and 3 both have zero slope to them whereas figure 4 is a power function. 



	there were many errors in the experiment that was performed. there were three possible random errors that occurred. the first was the stopwatch reaction time, when the experiment was performed one person held on to the stopwatch and attempted to stop it when one pendulum period was over. due to the fact that the period was relatively quick and everyone having a different reaction time there is some error in the data collected. another source of error was the angle of release. the set up that was used was functional for the materials that were given, but it was not the optimal way to perform the experiment. it was sometimes hard to get the angle of release at the exact angle that was chosen and when it was a controlled variable it is possible that not each trial was exactly the same angle of release. the last source of random error was the usage of a tape measure. a tape measure it a good tool to use because it is very long, but it is also flimsy, and it can bend and affect the measurements that are taken. there were two sources of systematic errors. the first error was the calibration of the triple beam balance. the balance was used to determine the mass of the bob that was used and if it was not calibrated properly it could have not given as accurate of results. the second was for the experimental trials when the photogate was used. it is possible that the amount of swing that were waited before taking the reading were not correct. for example, the reading was taken after five period swings to make sure that the reading of the period was stable. it is possible that only three swings were sufficient, and the time of the pendulum was longer than it should have been for each sample. 

	

there are many ways that the experiment could be improved. in order to reduce that amount of random errors next time it is possible that multiple people could record the time for the pendulum and then take an average of the times. this should help reduce the error due to reaction time. it is possible that next time the experiment was done both the protractor and a measuring stick could be mounted to the stand. this would allow for both the readings for the angle of release and the length of string to be more accurately read. it is also possible to premeasure the string lengths instead of adjusting the length of the string for each trial. this would make the length be more accurate because it was difficult to mount the string and get it to the ideal length. in order to reduce the systematic error instead of using a triple beam balance an electric scale could be used. both tools will take the mass, but an electric scale can be calibrated after every use with a button which could lead to more accurate readings. for the photogate when choosing a time it is possible a set of data could be used when taking the reading after three periods and five periods and compare the r^2 values that are given from the graph. this would allow for the best data points to be used and a better and more reliable set of data. 



the main source of constraints in this experiment is the fact that there were limited materials. there are many other ways that the experiment could have been performed that would have been more efficient. a lot of the ways that would reduce errors would also help to make the results more generalizable. also, for the data shown in tables 2, 4 and 6 there were only four trials taken for each variable. i think that with a bigger spread of data and repeating it more than once and averaging the numbers would make the data more accurate. for example, when the length of string was retested a larger range of lengths were used and the graph changed compared to when only four lengths were chosen. given more time i think that each of the three original experiments could be retested and used over a larger spread of data to give more reliable results.