conclusion-

the overall purpose of this lab was to determine different mathematical models for each of the independent variables tested in lab 5 as well as to conclude a final understanding for each variable and numerical value used in lab 6. after we completed our three experiments we got our three mathematical results(described in report and in graphs). the interpretation for these values are that applied force has a greater impact on acceleration then mass does as you can tell from the slopes of the graphs given previously.


these two groups both agree with the hypothesis that the more friction applied to the cart will result in less acceleration. this is shown true by the graphs of the different number of magnets used. this shows that the value of friction has a negative impact on acceleration. the groups mathematical models line up with ours showing that applied force has the greatest impact on acceleration. some errors that could have occurred during this lab experiment is the weighing of the objects. since we were given a triple beam instead of a digital scale this could lead to human error on not getting an exact measurement of the mass which could then go on to effect or mathematical model. a random error that could occur could be the machine that we were using could be faulty or change the strength of how hard it pulls the cart. also, another error could be not using the exact same starting point every time we measured acceleration. from this lab, and last lab, we know which factors contributed to the resulting numerical values. in terms of the acceleration, that we found from the velocity-time graph’s slope, the only factors that really affected it were mass and applied force. the experiment proved that $f = m a$ (newton’s second law). this means that the relationship is inverse because it shows that acceleration is equal to applied force divided by mass. so, when the mass is large and the force is small, the resulting numerical value would be very small, but oppositely the numerical value would be very large. if the applied force and mass are similar in numerical values, then the acceleration will be pretty close to 1m/s^2 because any number divided by itself will be 1