discussion and conclusion:

	during this lab, the impact of string length, mass of at the bottom of the pendulum, and angle of release on the period of a pendulum was investigated. it was found that the string length impacts the period for all values. as shown in figure 1, as the string length increase, the period increases as well. this is demonstrated by the power function $t=2.0187 l^{0.5325}$. the experiments showed that the mass at the bottom of the pendulum has no effect on the period of the pendulum. when the mass was varied at increments of 20 grams over an interval of 80 grams, the average period of the pendulum did not change. figure 2 shows the different values for period, and when the error bars are added to adjust the measurements with respect to uncertainty, the researcher can state that the values for period remained the same. this is valid for all mass values. the angle of release impacts the period of the pendulum for values above 20 degrees only. figure 3 shows the data for values only above 20-degree angle of release. there is a slight linear relationship between the data once one takes into account the error bars showing the uncertainty in the measurements. overall, string length has a great effect on the period, angle of release has a small effect for values above 20 degrees, and mass has no effect.

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=2$ pi * sqrt(l / g). this is similar to the equation of the line of best fit from figure 1, which is $t=2.0187 l^{0.5325}$. the equation from the line of best fit approximately takes the square root of the length of the string like the theoretical model, but it doesn’t take into account gravity. it also multiplies the square root of the length by about 2 like the theoretical model, but doesn’t multiply it by pi. the gravity and pi in the equation are from the impact of the angle of release, since it has a small effect on the period, as shown in figure 3. since mass doesn’t impact the period of the pendulum, there is nothing included in the equation for mass. 

	there was random human due to reaction speed in the timing of the period. this could be reduced by using a photogate to time the period, which was done when testing string length. there was also random human error in measuring the length of the string, which could be reduced by using a more precise measurement tool than a ruler. random human error resulted from measuring the angle of release. this could be reduced by either using an angle of release smaller than 20 degrees, since this won’t impact the period, or by attaching a protractor to the pendulum so that it could more easily be measured and the way the measurements are being taken with respect to the pendulum remains the same each time. systematic error was due to not all of the mass being located at the bottom of the pendulum, and this could be reduced by using a different mass that had all mass concentrated in one small area. the pendulum was only tested for a string length up to 0.86 meters, so it can only be generalized for values below this.