discussion and conclusion: 

	the purpose of these labs was to create mathematical models that can be used in a real lab setting as well as, to develop an understanding for each of the variables and numerical values in the mode, also to test and observe which variables affect acceleration.

	 the three experiments conducted developed the mathematical models by producing a graph based on forces compared to acceleration.  the results made by the experiments can be used to observe what factors affect acceleration and forces.  in the linear models, the y is equal to the acceleration within the system.  the x then represents 1/kg in the system.  the constant attached to this represents the force.  this is so the variable can equal acceleration.  the constant at the end of the equation is equal to acceleration as well.  this can either be a negative number indicating a decrease in the overall acceleration or it can be positive showing an addition of some acceleration.  this is true for all the linear models within the experiments.  for the polynomial equation, the y is equal to acceleration again but the first x value (x^2) is velocity, while the constant attached to this variable is in 1/m*kg.  this evens the equation out to be in acceleration.  the next to values are the same as the linear equation, x being force with the constant of 1/kg, and finally the end constant being in acceleration (m/s^2).






the error within this lab was mainly random error, however there was one piece of systematic error that could be observed within the data sets.  the systematic error within the system would be the weights added onto the end of the pulley (the bobbers) not all being the same weight.  it was stated to assume they were all the same weight.  this could have increased calculated values for force or decreased those calculated values.  the random error within the lab is due to the human error.  one error could be the release of the cart being too slow or too long after the acceleration tracker was started.  another source of error is from not grabbing enough data points from the recorded data.  due to the assumption that the experiment should produce a linear line on the acceleration tracking chart.  the data points were only collected for between 500cm to 0cm away from the pulley, while the grabbed data was more likely from the 400-150cm range.  this could change the overall slope of the line and either decrease or increase calculated values given the mathematical model.

 constraints in this lab can be not being able to test a wide range of values and not being able to increase or decrease/increase the acceleration of gravity in the lab.  these constraints make the mathematical models more general due to the decrease in testable values.  the testable values within this experiment limited the findings because only one variable within the equation could be tested.  due to $f=m a$ the only variable that could be changed in this experiment was the mass of the system.  trying to change the force would result in an addition or subtraction of forces, this would need to be done by adding weight onto the end of the pulley.  this would go against the experiment and thus shows the constraint in the experiment.
 the mathematical models found from these experiments support newtons second law by keeping the constants equal to the same unit.  also, they are all based off the force within the experiment.  just like in the equation $f=m a$, the acceleration is based off the force and mass within the system.  when the weight is added to the system the equation turns into a polynomial.  this is due to the addition of weight within the system.  the addition of weight adds a new variable which is the x^2 within the equation.  this accounts for the changing mass of the system and thus explains why the equation for addition of mass a polynomial is.