discussion and conclusion

the research question in this lab was what factors affect the period of a pendulum. the first experiment for the weight of the pendulum and how it affects the period of a pendulum. in this experiment we claimed that the weight of the pendulum has no affect on the length of a period. this was proven in our graph where our line of best fit had an incredibly low r squared value which revealed that there was no correlation between the two variables. there was also a general overlap in error bars in this experiment which revealed that it could have had no affect so our data changing was most likely due to errors. our second experiment tested for the length of the string and how it affects the length of a period. in this experiment we claimed that the longer the string length then the longer the length of a period. this was proven by our graph which showed a constant exponentially related increase which had no overlap in error bars. our third and final experiment was where we tested how the angle of release affected the length of the period. we realized as we increased the angle of release the period of the pendulum tended to decrease however, due to the massive overlap in error bars we were not able to conclude anything since the data could be flawed. the angle of the pendulum would not have affected the length of the period however, we observed a decrease due to our errors.

	the mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is calculated by using the theoretical formula is  $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. t is length of period and l is length of string. the mathematical model fits with our weight graph since as you can see weight of the pendulum does not affect the period of the pendulum in the equation. also, angle of release was not included in the formula either so we can assume that also does not affect the period of the pendulum. however, our data was non-conclusive due to the massive overlap in the error bars so we may assume that if our experiment was run under the perfect conditions that angle of release would not affect the period length. our one experiment for length of string and how it affected the length of the period makes sense according to this formula. this is shown by the exponential relationship due to the square root in the equation and it also would mean a general increase in the length of the period as the length of the string increased. this exact result was clearly observed and shown in our experiment due to the graph having no overlap in error bars and showing an increasing exponential relationship that resulted in a strong correlation between the two variables.

	in our experiment there were systematic errors due to using the same measuring tools in each process. such as the tool used to measure the angle of release, the length of the string, and the stopwatch. these were systematic due to the constant error in the tool that was being used to measure each quantity since they are not all perfect or perfectly calibrated. there were also random errors in the experiment such as the person timing with the stopwatch when they stopped it and the person releasing the pendulum since they could have applied any amount of resistance or force that could alter the period of the pendulum.

	some measurement constraints we had was in the timing due to the person timing during the two experiments that were weight vs period of pendulum and angle vs. period of pendulum. another constraint was measuring the string length due to its measurement being done with a measuring tool that was only accurate to the nearest tenth of a cm meant that it could have been off by a little. we estimated the measurements by placing it in the center of each cm mark. another thing that could have been uncertain was the angle of release due to it being estimated by using a protractor and being estimated to the middle of each mark which could have left some discrepancies. all these different measuring constraints would cause our generalized data to be a little off the actual values being higher or lower depending on the calibration of each measuring tool. the air resistance could have also caused values to be all generally higher than they were supposed to since it would slow down the pendulum.