discussion:

the objective of lab 5 was to develop mathematical models for two different variables. the variables were changing the hanging mass while keeping system mass constant and changing the mass of the cart. these variables were tested one at a time. the dependent variable for each was acceleration. we were trying to determine if changing these independent variables changed acceleration. the objective of lab 6 was to determine if any other variables affected our results. the variable we tested was friction. friction was said to be negligible in lab 5. we increased friction in the lab using magnetic strips and noted how it impacted acceleration. the system mass remained constant here while we changed the hanging mass for each individual trial. ex. we had 4 strips on the cart and changed the hanging mass to get the equation and so forth for the remaining 2 sets of trials.

the results of lab 5 are shown in graphs 1 and 2. the equations are posted on each graph as well as correlation. we determined that increasing the hanging mass increased acceleration and also that increasing the mass of the cart decreased acceleration. mass of the cart has a negative correlation and hanging mass has a positive correlation. the x value reported in each equation on graphs 1 and 2 represents force (n) while the y value represents acceleration (m/s^2). the results of lab 6 are shown in tables 3, 4, and 5 as well as graph 3. the equations are posted on graph 3. as friction decreased, slope increased and the c2 value decreased. the c2 value represents the amount of friction present. it represents the force of friction. as seen with no magnetic strips, the c2 value in the equation on graph 3 is very close to 0. this would mean that almost no friction is present.


	

the data from group 2 agrees with our data because they obtained the same results as we did. group 3 tested a different variable than we did. they tested to see whether the height of the track impacted acceleration. they determined that increasing the height led to a decrease in acceleration. their c2 values were affected showing that a force was present that opposed the motion of the cart. from comparing the answers from other groups, i can determine that the c2 value present in the equations represents a force acting on the cart. when a force such as friction is present, the c2 value will increase.

a possible source of error is air resistance on the hanging mass. this would cause a systematic error that results in acceleration being consistently slightly less. random errors would be how the cart was released and if it was slightly pushed to start and this was not taken into account. a robotic arm could release the cart. air resistance would be very difficult to eliminate and played a very small role.

the only constraint was that we assumed friction was not present in lab 5 and using no magnetic strips in lab 6. there may still have been some friction present either on the track or in the form of air resistance. this would very slightly affect the results and increase generalizability only slightly because the impact the played when not accounted for was so small.

newton’s second law was exhibited in this lab. the equation  presents how a change in force will affect the acceleration. this is what we tested in labs 5 and 6. we tested how various variables would affect the acceleration of the cart. a change in slope or c2 value would indicate a change in acceleration and force respectively. the mathematical models in the form $y=m x+b$ were consistent with newton’s second law because each variable represented a part of it. y was acceleration, m was a constant and x was the system force while b represented a retardant force, or in our investigation, friction.