discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this lab was to demonstrate the relationship between force, mass and acceleration in a system. in other words, the purpose is to show the mathematical relationship between among the previously stated variables in an actual system while simultaneously obtaining an understanding for each of the variables in the mathematical equations. 

in the three labs conducted, the mathematical models that were produced from the data obtained were led to by plotting the data of the mass at the end of the string versus the force of the system in excel and then plotting the equation and setting it to a linear equation as seen in figures 1 and 2. the r^2 value for the equation in figure 1 is seen to be .9981, which means the equation fits the data extremely accurately. the equation in figure 2 is less accurate with a value of .7239, meaning the equation does not fit the data well, although the general shape is what it should be for the equation, but not the data. the meaning of the equation from figure 1, $y=0.0257 x + 0.0094$ is the constant being multiplied by the x value is the 1/mass of system and the constant being added is the offset of the ramp. in the equation from figure 2, the equation of 2e+10x^2.938, the data was plotted incorrectly, and cannot be drawn upon to prove $f=m a$.
other groups data confirms our explanation in that all of their graphs are linear, and their variables match up with or explanation of 1/mass of the system. our data is also consistent with the other group’s findings that increased the slope of the track, finding that the acceleration increased as the height was increased, and is also consistent with the equations obtained from doing multiple trials, where the constant being added increases as the height increases (data obtained from group 2).
errors that are random and systematic are present in this experiment. the systematic error in the experiment can be seen in the data in that the mass was not measured using an electronic scale and with error in the dial caliper. the mass of the system and the bobbers were measured both together and separately. both measurements produced the same value of 339.7 grams. the dial caliper measurements were also consistent, since we measured the metal spacers multiple times in order to check the heights in the experiment. in the context of this being a college physics experiment, where the objective is to find the relationship with $f=m a$. random error could be seen in the lab with the consistency of the vacuum that would push the air in the track in order to get an almost frictionless surface for the cart to ride on, as the vacuum made some concerning noises and was seen to have some friction from the cart on the track because the air pressure was not strong enough the make the track “frictionless”. the only way to fix this would be to get a more consistent vacuum as to produce more consistent airflow.
constraints in this experiment deal mostly with those of sample size to draw data from. the masses in this experiment can be classified as “small scale” and it is yet to be tested if the equations would remain consistent, even when the masses are scaled up too much larger values. the same can be said for the height that adjusted the angle of the track. the heights used in this experiment can also be classified as “small scale” as the increments that the height was, increased by less than a cm for each trail. also, only 3 trials were conducted for the different heights. that being said, although i would like to have more data to base these claims off of, the current sets of data can be applied to make a general claim, given that the same conclusions were found by other groups.
regarding the two models found in this experiment, the first equation, $y=0.0257 x + 0.0094$ can be restated as $a=0.0257 f+0.0094$. this means the acceleration is indicative of the force applied. the constant being added can also be negated if the plane the object is on is perfectly level. therefore, the equation can be reorganized as 339.7a which is  f, with 339.7 being the mass of the system and the equation can be written as such. the second equation, being 2e+10x^2.938, was plotted wrong on the graph, but when adjusted, it is close to the other groups’ equations on the chalkboard. when taking another group’s equation, $a = 0.0882 m^{-1.4}$, when reorganized it is close to the equation $f=m a$.