discussion and conclusion

this three-part lab was completed with the intention to answer the research question, “what impacts the period of a pendulum?”

when mass was tested as the experimental variable, the research question, what variables impact the period of a pendulum, could be answered. mass had no impact on the period according to the graphed data, which does not support the original prediction. as shown in figure 3, the error bars of the five points overlap with one another, indicating that the differences between these values is not significant. according to the equivalency criterion in this lab course, the error bars were inputted as two standard deviations. this way, it could be concluded with 95% certainty that the actual value of each point fell within the error bars. additionally, this conclusion could confidently be drawn as the error bars are rather small indicating that the uncertainty of these values was rather small.

next, when length was tested as the experimental variable, the research question, what variables impact the period of a pendulum, could be answered. with increasing length, the period of the pendulum increased which supports the original prediction. as shown in figure 1, the error bars in most cases did not overlap, indicating that the differences between these values were significant. according to the equivalency criterion in this lab course, the errors bars were inputted as two standard deviations, like the mass experiment. so again, it could be concluded with 95% certainty that the actual value of each point fell within the error bars. additionally, this conclusion, like that of the mass conclusion, could confidently be drawn as the error bars are rather small indicating that the uncertainty of these values was rather small.

lastly, when angle of release was tested as the experiment variable, the research question, what variables impact the period of a pendulum, could be answered. from the data it can be concluded that the angle of release did not impact the period of the pendulum which does not support the original prediction. a shown in figure 2, the error bars overlapped, indicating that the differences between these values were insignificant. according to the equivalency criterion in this lab course, the error bars were inputted as two standard deviations, like the two prior experiments. so again, it could be concluded with 95% certainty that the actual value of each point fell within the error bars. unlike the other two experiments, this conclusion was drawn with less confidence as the error bars for this data were rather large. this indicates that the uncertainty of these values was large and may impact the accuracy of the conclusion. it was later learned that if the angle remains under a value of 20 degrees then it will have no impact on the period of the pendulum.

	the theoretical equation for the period of the pendulum is  . the theoretical model shows that the period of a pendulum is equal to  multiplied by the square root of the length of the string divided by the force of gravity. in lab 03 the equation of the line of the period vs length graph was determined to be a power function with the equation of . at this point, the theoretical equation could be manipulated to match the equation found from the period vs length graph. after manipulation, the theoretical equation appears as . it is clear after manipulation that the mathematical model supports that of theoretical equation.

random error was present throughout the experiment. the first being the timing of the trials as they could only be estimated to a hundredth of a second due to the stopwatches that were provide. secondly, the measurements for the length of the string could only be estimated to a millimeter due to the measuring tapes that were provided. lastly, human error can act as random error. this includes the person that is taking the measurements and how they estimate the last digit of the measurement, as well as human reaction time while timing the pendulum swings. the impact of these random errors can be reduced by perfecting measuring techniques, like making sure the measuring tape is straight when measurements are taken. additionally, they can be reduced by having multiple people timing a trial or completing multiple trials and finding the average of these measurements.

a systematic error that affected the results of the experiment was length measurements were not taken from the center of mass of the pendulum. the impact of this on the results can be reduced by measuring the length of the pendulum from the top of the string to the center of the mass on the end of the string. other possible systematic errors may include a stretched-out tape measure or nonfunctioning stopwatch that would give incorrect measurements. these systematic errors could be avoided by checking measurements with another measuring device.

a constraint within this experiment was the limited lengths. the experiment had to take place within the lab room which restricted the length of the pendulum to the height of the ceiling. this limits the generalizability of the results as the conclusions drawn can only be applied to relatively short lengths. the conclusion that period increases with increasing length cannot be applied as confidently to longer lengths. another constraint was the limited mass. the masses provided were a relatively small range, and the data specifically ranges from 20-300 grams. like the length, this limits the generalizability of the results as the conclusions drawn can only be applied to relatively small masses. the conclusion that the period remains constant with changing mass cannot be applied as confidently to larger masses. lastly, the requirement that the angle stays under 20 degrees acted as another restraint. this limits the generalizability of the results as the conclusion that angle does not affect the period of a pendulum only holds true for angles under 20 degrees and cannot be applied to larger angles.