Conclusion:
From the graph and table we are able to conclude that there is no correlation between the mass of the pendulum object and the time it takes for the pendulum to complete on period. By the margin of error, one can deduce that some points lie too close to another’s error that there may be no difference in period between two weights. As one can tell from the graph, all data points lie within .03 seconds of each other, so there is no noticeable correlation to draw. The conclusion for these criteria would be that there is no effect of mass on the period of the pendulum.	
From this data, w are able to conclude that there no correlation between the angle of launch and the time it take for the pendulum to complete one period because of the relative error for the points. As seen in the graph above, the change in time from 15 degrees to 20 degrees results in a decrease in the period, which is opposite of the output of 10 degrees to 15 degrees, so from this we can conclude that there is no correlation between the angle the pendulum is launched at and the time it takes for the pendulum to complete one period.
From the graph above one can interpret a positive correlation between the independent and dependent variables of this data set. For this, the length of the string was the independent variable and the period was the dependent variable. By judging the distances between the relative error and the data points we came to the conclusion that there is a positive correlation, so this means that by decreasing or increasing the length of the string, the time it takes for the pendulum respectively decreases or increases.
From lab 03 our team was able to use a precise time measurement instrument, PhotoGate. By this we were able to bring our error down to relatively zero and allow us to come up with a precise table and graph of the data. By using the data set with the most obvious correlation, String length vs period of pendulum, we were able to come up with an equation from our line of best fit in Microsoft Excel. From the use of Excel, we were able to deduce an equation that fit our data very closely. The final equation we derived of the Length of String vs Period of the Pendulum is is 
 2.0919 * x^0.4474
Pictured below is our teams final experimental mathematical model and our calculations of our equation compared to the theoretical model for the period of the pendulum is 
From our team’s experimental data, the experimental mathematical model, and the theoretical mathematical model, we can say that the mass of a pendulums object nor the angle the pendulum was launched have a correlation with the time it takes for the pendulum to complete one period. However, we can say that there is a correlation between the length of the string used for the pendulum and the time it takes for the pendulum to complete one period. This conclusion is based on the  data that we collected and the equation for the line of best fit for the data of the length vs period, which equals about the same value for the constant of the theoretical equation that we were able to find. A possible random error that may have taken during place in this experiment was human error, namely the timing of the period in the initial description of the report. By using handheld stopwatches, it was up to the reaction time of those taking the experiment to accurately measure the time of a single period. By taking the average of multiple trials, and the average of three periods in one trial we felt we were able to make a difference in out calculations which reduced the amount of human error in this experiment. In the final part of this report, the use of PhotoGate allowed us to accurately take the time of one period without human error at play. Systematic error could have been a broken stopwatch or incorrect calculations from the software used when calculating time, however there does not seem to be any systematic error in this experiment. Finally, our constraints for this experiment consisted of the independent variables that were not being tested at a particular time in the experiment (i.e. trial 1 measured the angle difference had on the period of the pendulum, while length and mass were kept constant). Each separate experiment was used only with one changing variable, while the others were kept constant for the duration of that experiment. Once we were able to deduce the positive correlation between length of the pendulums string and the period of the pendulum we kept all of the other independent variables constant (i.e. mass and angle launched at). By changing these, from our previous data sets, there would have been no noticeable change to the time of the period, but to be absolutely sure of a single independent variable in our final experiment, we decided to keep them constant. 
This concludes the labs 1, 2, and 3 report.