conclusion 

for this lab we were to conduct many experiments in order to develop mathematical models in order to show to real behavior of a similar system. we also used this to come up with an understanding of each of the variables that we worked with and their numerical values.

as we conducted each experiment, we made sure to follow closely with how we discussed we would conduct this lab prior to starting. we took each of the tests carefully and made sure that there was little to no error in each. we then took an average of all the data and submitted them into excel to create graphs for each test. with each of these tests we created a trend line and brought in an equation in order to get the mathematical model. my interpretation of the physical meaning of each variable came about as we tested each number. through the tests each variables value became more present.
each of these groups work contributed to ours because their numbers and mathematical models were all consistent with the ones that we came up with. this betters my understanding of my numbers because it gives me a broader pool of peoples work to see from. this allows me to see more numbers and get a better understanding. 
some random errors that we came across during this experiment is that as we would change the tilt, the glider would be unstable under the little planks. in order to work around this, we decided to hold the legs each test to make sure that there was so sliding. one other random error that we came across was that it seemed like ours numbers were sometimes all over the place. in order to get around this we took many different tests and took the average in order to get an accurate test.
some constraints that may limit the generalizability of our results were that the glider wasn’t 100% frictionless. this allowed us to get some accurate numbers, but not the most accurate as possible. 
our mathematical models were found from each of our excel graphs. we took all the data that we collected and then put it into excel and got out our mathematical models. for the first tests we got $y= 0.0028 x-0.0236$. r^2 is 0.9999 and for the second, $y=3.5928x^{0.328}$   r^2 is 0.9594. each of these follow newtons second law because we have a force that is equal to the mass of our object times the variable, which is equal to the acceleration of our glider.