conclusion:


the objective of this series of experiments was to determine to determine which pendulum variables effect the time, period, for a complete swing of a pendulum. further, an objective was to analyze those effects to determine the correlation between the variables and the period. the research question of these experiments was “what impacts the period of a pendulum?” the independent variables tested to answer this question were angle of release, length of the pendulum and mass of the pendulum. the dependent variable was the time in seconds for the period.

the first experiment was testing the angle of release of the pendulum. this was tested by varying angle of release between 5 and 30 degrees by increments of 5 degrees. time for period was recorded by hand using a stop watch and observation. the controlled variables of this test were the length of the pendulum kept at 59 centimeters and the mass of the pendulum kept at 50 grams. the predicted outcome was that the larger the angle of release, the longer the period for a complete swing. however, this was disproved after testing. the graph resulting from this experiment’s data showed no correlation between the period and the angle of release. the data points strongly deviate from the trendline and are scattered amongst one another. this means this variable can be ruled out as a factor that impacts period.

the second experiment was testing the length of the pendulum. this was tested by increasing the length by intervals of 20 centimeters from 29 centimeters to 129 centimeters for preliminary data and keeping the angle of release at 30 degrees and the mass of the pendulum at 50 grams. the preliminary data was recorded by hand using a stop watch and observation. this data led to the conclusion that length of a pendulum is a factor that impacts the period. the graph showed a significant positive correlation between period and mass of the pendulum. from this a further experiment was developed. this experiment used a photogate timing mechanism to increase the accuracy of the data points. for this experiment, the period was measured for length of the pendulum beginning with 44 centimeters (0.44 meters) increasing by 0.3 meters each trial until a max of 1.64 meters. the graph resulting from this experiment showed very strong correlation between length of the pendulum and period. the error bars are negligible with a range of uncertainty of 0.001. the conclusion was the length of the pendulum directly effect the period with a positive correlation. to further the experiment, it would be beneficial to conduct the experiment in an environment that allows the string length to be magnified further.

the third experiment was testing the mass of the pendulum. this was tested by increasing the mass by 20 grams from 50 grams to 150 grams. time for period was recorded by hand using a stop watch and observation. the controlled variables of this test were length of the pendulum kept at 53 centimeters and angle of release kept at 30 degrees. the predicted outcome was that as the mass of the pendulum increases, the period of time for a complete swing increases as well. however, this was disproved after testing. the graph resulting from this experiment’s data showed little correlation between the period and the mass of the pendulum. the data points had overlapping uncertainties showing the values were not significantly different enough for mass to effect period. this means this variable can be ruled out as a factor that impacts period.

the theoretical mathematical model was $t=\frac{l sqrt_{2}}{g^{0.5}}$. the experimental equation resulting from our length experiment was $t=1.9936 x^{0.492}$. these mathematical models are both power graphs and show that as length increases, so will time required for a complete swing of the pendulum. the equation does not include mass or angle of release. this solidifies the conclusion that mass and angle are not significant factors to play a role in period of a pendulum. the possible random errors present in this experiment are measurement techniques due to the devices used for measurement. possible systematic errors include time measurement from photogate and stopwatch and length measurement from old tape measures. to reduce random error, caution was taken in measuring angle or length with a protractor or tape measure. measurements were also made more than once. values were not rounded or estimated. time devices were checked for calibration. constraints of the experiment include space, time, resources and air resistance. with more space, time and resources, more trials could have been conducted with larger variation to represent more values in the data. air resistance was also not taken into an account. if the experiments were conducted in a controlled environment, air resistance could be measured, controlled, and factored into the results.