conclusion:

 the purpose of this lab was to find how different forces affect the acceleration of an entire system. these forces were then measured, recorded, and put into excel to find the mathematical model that describes the behavior of the real system.

 for lab 05 the first experiment we tested to see if how the hanging mass affected the acceleration, we found the relationship to be linear the more mass we added to the hanging mass, although the line also showed some similarities to a power curve. i think the power curve would make more sense since acceleration of gravity is squared so it should be a power curve. each variable is a linear increase when is should be a power increase. the mathematical model is a direct result of the data taken from this experiment, that is then put into excel to find the model

	for lab 05 experiment two we tested the m1 which was the cart on the track vs acceleration. we again found the relationship to be linear which in hindsight it should also be a power curve due to the force of gravity being squared. the mathematical model is a direct result of the data taken from this experiment, that is then put into excel to find the model.

	in lab 06 we experimented to see home frictional force would affect the acceleration by carrying out the same experiment in lab 05 experiment 1, except this time frictional force was introduced.  in this experiment our acceleration should have gotten slow but instead it got faster (error discussed in “d”). our mathematical model for this was linear, due to gravity it should be power but for this experiment we got extremely linear data. as the mass went up on the force applied the system gained speed due to gravity. the mathematical model is a direct result of the data taken from this experiment, that is then put into excel to find the model

 in lab 05 some error could have come from not having the correct mass for each bobber used which would throw off the force of newtons in the graph. so, more error could have come from the vacuum not pushing out a consistent amount of air. in lab 06 we had backwards data, when we were supposed to get more friction that cause less acceleration, we ended up getting a higher acceleration the more magnets we added. this could’ve been cause by putting the magnets facing the wrong direction which then would repel the cart away from the track and create less friction instead of more. another way the acceleration could’ve been affected would have been from the mass. we had to have a constant mass the whole time so while we were using the system with no magnet for applied yet we set them one the top of the system, placing the on top could’ve cause a unproportionable distribution of weight which then would create mechanical friction for if it leaned to far to one side.

 thee only constraint we could think of would have been how the frictional force could be applied the magnets are a confusing unmeasurable amount of force applied to slow down the system.

 the models are consistent because as the mass hanging is increase the force increases because gravity would stay consistent. $f=m a$ so the more mass we added the faster the overall system went.