discussion and conclusion:

the research question that was being investigated was: how does the  acceleration of a system change when the force caused by mass 1 changes? with the findings we had in lab 05 and 06 we were able to find the correlation between the factors that impact the acceleration of the system, which were  the mass of the m1 and the force on m2, the hanging mass. in the system, all other forces were constant and did not affect the acceleration. the acceleration is inversely proportional to the mass of the block(m1). the acceleration is directly proportional to the force applied to the suspended mass(m2). our findings can be reinforced with figure 1 and 2. figure 1. has a positive straight-line slope equal to 1/ (m1+m2), the total mass in the system which remained constant. 

this result proves that the acceleration of the system is directly proportional to the force on the hanging mass. figure 2 shows a negative , nonlinear slope which proves that the acceleration of the system is inversely proportional to the mass of m1. our findings also helped us understand the real-life implications of newton’s second law of motion. our two experimental models represent his equation of force being the product of mass time gravity. his law states that acceleration is directly proportional to the force and inversely proportional to the mass. both of our models in figure 1 and 2 support these findings. model 1 has a positive slope showing positive correlation between acceleration and force on hanging mass(m1). model 2 has a negative non-linear slope showing negative correlation between acceleration and the mass of block(m1). therefore, the graphs found after the experiment provided evidence to support the claim that the acceleration is directly proportional to the force applied to the hanging/suspended mass (m2). each graph has a positive straight-line slope approximately equal to (1 / the total mass of the system) which remains constant. this proves that the acceleration depends on the force on the hanging mass(m2).

constraints in our lab setting included a surface with friction meaning we could not have a perfect model without taking friction into account. the second constraint was the mass not being uniform which would make each change in the mass inconsistent. a third and final constraint was time as we only had two lab periods to complete the experiment.  

our lab had both systematic and random. most of our error came from constraints from the lab setting such as a non-frictionless surface. there was also no way to tell the exact mass of each bob meaning our mass of increase/decrease would be inconsistent. our group found that the y-intercept of each equation was meaningless as there was also no concrete easy to start the collection with the data at the same time the air machine was turned on. upon further discussion with other groups we found that their y-intercepts were also wildly inconsistent. 



 discussions with other groups is 

all of the groups we discussed with found similar results to ours. group 1 especially with our mathematical models only varying by tenths. group 1 was able to find the correlation between force and acceleration in the same fashion that we had done. their mathematical models also supported their claim very well. group 6 had a different physical set up along with a different change in the set up. their findings were still very close to ours. their conclusion fitting with the proportional relationship with acceleration and the decreased tilt. 

 they all found a linear relation between the acceleration of the graph and the force produced my m2. however, the slopes and the y-intercepts had a moderate amount of variation, which could have been caused by the slight variations in the physical lab setting produced by each group’s experimental set-up since all of us had a slightly different set up. additionally, for model 2, all the groups who reported their data found that the acceleration was directly proportional to the inverse of the first mass; however, the coefficients varied as well. 

although the functions of each group varied, the overall relationship between each variable remained consistent; therefore, our claims for the correlations between variables are more validated; however, the functions we derived from this lab give us less confidence due to the moderate variance between groups’ functions.