discussion and conclusion

the purpose of lab 05 was to use the lab equipment to test two different independent variables to see their relationship with acceleration and then create mathematical models to describe their actions. in lab 06, the purpose was to now test another independent variable, while other groups did others, to see how it relates to acceleration and create and compare another mathematical model to understand how they work in a real system. 
for the experiment in lab 05 the first thing tested regarding acceleration was the mass of the system. this was done by adding/removing bobs from the car on the air track. observing the mathematical model, we concluded that as mass is increased, the acceleration decreases. the mathematical model for this was $y=1.032 x^{1.354}$. once we compared with other groups, we realized that our graph and equation was off and realized we did not correctly change the mass in each trial. this means our results are not quite valid but in the mathematical model we know that the mass was a power function with x as the mass and y as the acceleration.

	the next aspect tested in lab 05 was the force applied from the hanging mass. we increased the weight on the string for each of the eight trials and this became a linear mathematical model with a slope of 2.7718. as the force, or mass on string, increased, the acceleration also increased from this positive slope. x in the equation stands for the force and the y is equal to is the acceleration.

	in lab 06 we tested a completely different hypothesis which involved adding a backwards tilt to the track. with each of the three trials we increased the tilt and mass slowly. this resulted in a positive slope, however an inverse relationship was created because the higher the ramp, the harder it is for an object to accelerate so it decreased, while the force still increased. the linear plot had r squared values very close to one and in the models, x stands for the force and y is the resulting acceleration.

group two tested a completely different hypothesis which was whether friction affects the acceleration in any way. they concluded that it does not affect acceleration. there mathematical model revealed that with each magnet they added, there c2 value increased negatively. this makes sense because the more mass on the system, the harder it will be for the cart to accelerate. mass of the system created a slope in the line, and friction played no part. this validated the first part of the experiment that showed how mass make acceleration decrease.
in figure 2 below, the data shown was from group 5. no other group had the same hypothesis as ours from lack of lab equipment. group 5 had the opposite of our hypothesis and tested a forward tilt in the air track. as we guessed their results were opposite than ours which involved an increase of acceleration. this helped validate our results, since our experiments were related. c1 represents 1 over the mass of the system, which stays the same for each of the mathematical models and c2 is the dependent variable (acceleration) which increased in group 5’s data.

the only systematic error that could occur would involve the sensor hooked up to the computer to create plots. if there was any error with this, it would be hard to tell. its deviation of error is very small, so i wouldn’t imagine it being an issue. we carefully used the equipment to ensure little error. this system only needed the user to click run and stop so its user error is small as well. we had much error in testing the mass as a factor of acceleration in lab 05. we did not correctly pursue the lab and our graph did not come out correctly. this error was from misunderstanding the lab instructions. to ensure this wouldn’t happen again we will question anything we don’t know and read the lab instructions thoroughly. 
 the constraints of this experiment would be from not testing every aspect that could affect acceleration. other factors not tested in our experiment that may have affected our acceleration in this experiment could be air resistance. this sort of frictional force of air on the system might slow down our acceleration. this was not tested in our experiment, but if it was then it would have to be in an air resistance safe environment, which we could not do. friction did not affect the systems in the other groups, but that was from a surface friction. air may have a separate impact. 
our two experimental mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law because they reflect how each of the variables would either increase or decrease one another. for instance, we concluded from lab 05 that as the mass of the system increased, the acceleration will decrease. this lines up with newton’s second law because mass of the system and acceleration are multiplied and equal the sum of all forces in the system. therefore, if the mass of the system were increased, then the acceleration would decrease in the $f=m a$ equation because they are equal to force and isolating the acceleration alone would result in f being divided by the mass of the system. in addition, we tested and showed that as the applied force increases, the acceleration increases with it in a completely linear, positive slope. it’s obvious from the $f=m a$ equation that as the force were to increase, then acceleration would increase as well since force is the product of mass and acceleration. this holds for just the one force we tested and the sum of all forces in the law because we did many forces within our trials and they all proved the same result, more and more each time.