discussion and conclusion.

 	the research question for this lab was what variables impact the period of a pendulum. the first three experiments addressed the research question by isolating one variable per experiment and observing how changes to that variable affected the period of the pendulum. the first experiment had mass as the independent (isolated) variable, and no conclusion was drawn from the data. all of the points were within the equivalency criterion of one another and thus the claim made was that mass has no affect on period. the second experiment had length of string as the independent variable and the conclusion was that increasing the length of string also increases the period. this claim was supported by the data as a positive correlation was observed in the measurements outside of the equivalency criterion. the third experiment had starting angle as the independent variable and the conclusion was that large changes in starting angle do affect the period. many of the data points were within the equivalency criterion but the extremes of the set are outside of the equivalency criterion. thus, the claim is that increasing the starting angle by a large amount will increase the period. the final experiment was served to provide the necessary data to calculate the measurement uncertainty for a human timer. 

	the theoretical mathematical model of a pendulum is , where t is the period in seconds, l is the length of the pendulum in meters and  is the acceleration due to gravity. on earth, , so the equation can be simplified to . using a sensor to measure the period and excel to plot the data, we produced the equation , which is extremely close to the theoretical model. mass is not included in the model because it does not affect the period of the pendulum and starting angle is also neglected because its effect on period is minimal unless dealing with large differences in angle. 

	the largest source of random error in this lab was the manual timing of the first three experiments. this is due to differences in human reaction time and is evident when comparing the measurement uncertainty between the first three experiments and the experiment where a sensor was used. the measurement uncertainty for a human is nearly 100 times greater than for a sensor. another source of random error could be release angle, which was difficult to precisely measure using only a protractor with a small degree of precision. possible systematic errors in the lab are the weights mass’s being different than what is stated or the timing sensor being slightly fast or slow. the best way to reduce random error is to simply gather more data points. more data points will accumulate closer to the true value of the measurement, allowing outliers to be excluded. a way to reduce systematic error would be to use multiple different sets of weights and timing sensors and combining the data to exclude outliers. 

	the largest constraint of the experiment was the limited amount of data points. as previously stated, the largest source of error was the timing of the period during the first three experiments and the error bars on those measurements are large. based on the data collected, it is possible to draw any number of trends through the error bars and make different claims. collecting more data would eliminate this possibility, as would more accurate timing equipment, such as the sensor used in the last experiment.