conclusion: 

	in conclusion, the answer to the research question “what impacts the period of a pendulum?” can be answered as the following. the period of a pendulum is unaffected by the angle of release, and the mass of the pendulum itself. rather, the only thing that did affect the period would be the length of the pendulum. this is proven through our multiple graphs and charts where its demonstrated that mass and angle of release don’t have any effect, while the length has a prominent one. 

even though the angle of release and mass graphs had a somewhat upwards trend, factoring in the fact that the true value could be anywhere within the error bars. it is likely that there is absolutely no correlation what so ever, as a horizontal line can be drawn through the error bar of both graph 2 and graph 1. however, the same cannot be said for graph 3 as the points are so far apart with error bars so small there is a definitive trend occurring. this trend was described in our equation $y=2.0305 x^{0.4905}$ which is near identical with the theoretical pendulum equation which is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ . when plugging a value of 0.5m into both equations the theoretical one yields 1.42, while our equation yields 1.45. both of which are very close to one another with a discrepancy of 0.03. 

of the errors witnessed during our labs, i’ve been able to notice the following. systematic is  the string being stretched/warped, our tape measure having smudges, the weight having a few scratches, and the protractor being faded. random is  mistiming the period with stopwatches, measuring the length of the string from differing points on the weight, draping the pendulum over either side of the stand, and switching between persons to execute the swing. of these errors we can resolve them through the following. firstly, utilizing a photogate gives far more precise timings, we need to consistently measure to the center of mass, have only 1 person actually let the pendulum go, and lastly chose one side of the stand to drape the pendulum from. 

there weren’t many constraints for this experiment, however they did still exist. some would include, our inability to make a pendulum taller than the room, our inability to use a mass exceeding what was given to us, 190g i believe. the inability to pull a pendulum from a greater angle than 90 degrees  and lastly, the inability to test a pendulum with a different gravity.

