discussion and conclusion

what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?

the first experiment of testing angle of release versus the period of a pendulum (table 1) addressed the research question as the angle of release is a plausible factor of something that may affect the period of a pendulum.  our prediction was that there would be no effect on the period of the pendulum.  we then tested 3 different angles of 10, 20, and 30 degrees and found the results with constant variables of mass at 250 g and string length of 1.43 m (table 4).  from our results (table 4) and the graph (figure 1) produced from the results we concluded that under the conditions that the angle of release is less than or equal to 30, it does not affect the period of a pendulum.  the second experiment of testing mass versus the period of a pendulum (table 2) addressed the research question as the mass is a plausible factor of something that may affect the period of a pendulum.  our prediction was that there would be no effect on the period of the pendulum.  we then tested 3 different masses of 50, 150, and 250 grams and found the results with constant variables of angle of release of 30 degrees and string length of 1.43 m (table 5).  from our results (table 5) and the graph (figure 2) produced from the results we concluded that under the conditions that the mass is less than or equal to 250 grams, it does not affect the period of a pendulum.  the third experiment of testing length of string versus the period of a pendulum (table 3) addressed the research question as the length of the string is a plausible factor of something that may affect the period of a pendulum.  our prediction was that the longer the length of the string, the greater the period of the pendulum.  we then tested 3 different lengths of 0.5, 1.0, and 1.5 meters and found the results with constant variables of mass at 250 g and angle of release of 30 degrees (table 6).  from our results (table 6) and the graph (figure 3) produced from the results we concluded that under the conditions that the angle of release is less than or equal to 30 and the mass of the pendulum is less than or equal to 250 grams, it does affect the period of a pendulum.

the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum swing is .  when we found our mathematical model for our data  (figure 4), where x is the length of the string, and y is the period of the pendulum.  our mathematical model and the theoretical equation are very similar as if you solve the theoretical equation to be similar to our mathematical model and plugging in 9.8 m/ and 3.1416 for pi the theoretical equation comes to , which is very similar to our mathematical model.  a difference between our model and the theoretical is that gravity is taken into account, but we did not take into account gravity in any of our experiments or the final equation.

the main systematic error that we experienced in our first three experiments (tables 1-6 and figures 1-3) was the timing of the stopwatch.  as the stopwatch handler has a reaction time, the stopwatch would not perfectly start once the pendulum was released, this caused there to be a systematic error of reaction time.  this would cause our data to be shifted left as we lost time by not starting the stopwatch perfectly at the release.  we attempted to reduce this systematic error in two ways.  the first was to calculate the uncertainty value by running 10 tests of a single period with a constant mass, length, and angle of release, then taking the standard deviation of this (0.0639) and multiplying it by two (0.1278) the get a 95% confidence interval.  the second way was to use a photogate, which would not require a stopwatch and would record the period of a pendulum on its own with a small uncertainty of 0.001 second.

a factor that may cause us to limit the generalizability of our results is that we did not test any angles greater than 30 degrees or any mass greater than 250 g, which may at a larger value cause the period of the pendulum to be affected.