discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of these experiments was to determine what factors affect the period of a pendulum. the three factors tested were mass, length, and angle of release of the pendulum. 

in the experiment were mass was tested, the graph of the data (figure 1) was a flat straight line indicating no correlation between mass and period. the uncertainties of each measurement overlapped indicating that the period for the different masses were not necessarily different. the uncertainty was found by taking the same measurement for the period ten times and then finding the standard deviation. based on the findings of this experiment, for all small-sized pendulums, mass does not affect the period of the pendulum. this should hold for all small pendulums and masses within the range of those that were tested.

in the experiment were the release angle was tested, the graph of the data (figure 2) formed a flat straight line indicating no correlation between angle and period of a pendulum. since the uncertainties of the data overlapped between the different data points, it means that they were too close together to be sure that the value changed and therefore we conclude that the angle of release does not affect on the period. the uncertainties were estimated using the accuracies of the equipment used. based on the findings of this experiment, for all small-sized pendulums, the angle of release does not affect the period of the pendulum. this should hold for all small pendulums and within the range of all the angles tested.

in the next experiment was to determine the relationship between the length of the pendulum and the period. based on the graph of the data (figure 3) it can be determined that there is a positive relationship between the length and period. this was determined because the uncertainties of the data points did not overlap so it can be concluded that the length of the period increase as the length of the pendulum increased. the uncertainty for this data was estimated using the accuracy of the equipment. the findings of this experiment should hold true for all small pendulums within the range of the lengths tested. 

to form a theoretical model using the three factors tested, it needed to be determined what the exact relationship was between the length and the period. so far, we proved that the relationship is positive but to form a more accurate model, a photogate was used and the same experiment was conducted testing length versus period. also, a wider range of lengths was tested. since the angle of release and mass do not affect the period, they can be excluded from the theoretical model. after the data was collected it was put in excel. a line of best fit function should that the data fit a power function with an r squared value of .9996 (figure 4). the theoretical mathematical model created was $t=2.0163 l^{0.4978}$. it can be said that this model fits the data very well because the r squared value is very high and almost one. the true theoretical model is the    $t=2.0071 l^{0.5}$         which supports the results of these experiments because they are very similar. 

random error was accounted for in the measuring of the period. in the first three experiments, data were collected using stopwatches. two people recorded the time it took for the pendulum to go through five periods. those times were taken, divided by five and then average. measuring multiple periods at once and having multiple people measure the same period both reduce the effects of random error. to reduce the effects of random error dramatically when measuring the period, a photogate was used in the final experiment. this resulted in data that was able to form a very accurate mathematical model. 

constraints of the experiment include the range of lengths tested for and the range of masses tested for. there was no real constraint on the release angle however it could not be release from higher than 90 degrees. the longest length of the pendulum that was able to be tested for was just above three meters, and the heaviest mass tested was 250g. this may affect the generalizability of the results because this model may only be applicable within these ranges. it could be possible that at certain extremes the model does not hold but that is unable to be determined from these experiments.