discussion and conclusion

	the research question that is being investigated in the lab is what the dependent variable, the period of one cycle, will be affected by. the factors that could influence this were the mass, the angle of release, and the string length. after we had conducted the experiments with each of the variables having their own test there can be claims about what certain things will impact the period of the pendulum.

	when we were predicting what would affect the period of the pendulum, we had said that the length and the angle of release would affect the time, while we had said that the mass of the object would not affect it at all. while we were conducting the experiment, we were correct about the length of the pendulum affecting the period, as you can see in figure 1, and the mass not affecting the period at all, as you can see in figure 2. the graphs show that time period is affected and not affected by the length and mass. when we were working on the angle of release, our prediction had been correct but after talking to our instructor we had told that our data was off. we had measured with angles 30 degrees and less, which is not supposed to affect the period. this is known as small angle approximation. this means that our period time should have been around the same if not the same time for all angles less than 30 degrees. but in our data, as the angle increased from 5 degrees all the way up to 20 degrees, our time was increasing. this could have been a mental error where the time keepers were expecting the time to be longer and the time keepers could have mentally slowing down to keep the data the way they were thinking it should. as you can see in figure 3, we had a very big slope, which we should not have. 

	the theoretical equation for the mathematical model is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}$    . our equation that was found based on our data is different that the theoretical because our equation was $y=1.9997 x^{0.5521}$. our data can be backed up with our r^2 value at a value of .9994. when we had compared the equation to our graph, the line had gone through all the points in the data, almost perfectly on the line. 
 there could have been many random errors while doing these tests. one of the random errors could have been delayed time keeping. this is when the time keepers were either too slow or too quick when starting and stopping the timer, skewing the data. another big error that could have happened was not dropping the pendulum at the correct angle because the protractor could not have been steady when locating how high we had to drop it from. this could have been fixed if we had a protractor joked up to the top of the contraption showing us exactly where the angle of release would be. a third factor that could have made an impact in the period of the pendulum was if the person dropping the pendulum had applied any force onto the pendulum as it was going down, causing the data to be slightly off. 

 a few constraints that could have occurred was that air resistance was not applied at all in the equation that we used, or it was not even a concern when doing our lab. air resistance would have slowed down the pendulum. a second factor not mentioned was the small weight of the string not being added into it. this could possibly have skewed the data for mass and period