conclusion:

the research question being investigated in this lab was “what impacts the period of a pendulum?”. the three experiments carried out were done to answer this question.

in all experiments carried out, the period of the pendulum was the dependent variable. one experiment was when the mass of the pendulum was the independent variable with the angle of release and length of the string being controlled variables. this test concluded that the mass did not affect the time of the pendulum swing because of the obvious inconsistent values from different masses. the graph of mass over time showed that there was no correlation between the two because of the error bars and the scattered points. the next test was using the angle of release as the independent variable and the length and mass as controlled variables. the graph showed possible correlation, but after further testing and eliminating systematic and random errors, it was concluded that the angle did not affect the period of the pendulum swing. the last test done was the independent variable as the length of the string. observing the data and graph of time and length showed that there was a direct correlation between the two.

the theoretical mathematical model for the pendulum’s period is 2 ᴨ  * √(l/g). this equation proves that the period of the pendulum and length of the string correlate. this equation also confirms that the results of the experiment were correct. it also proves that the angle and mass of the pendulum do not correlate with the period, which the experiment and graphs show.

the random error that was most obvious was the stopwatch error mentioned before, and this error came from the inconsistency of starting and stopping the timer. this caused the period values to be skewed from what they possibly were supposed to be. this error was corrected by using multiple stopwatches and taking the average time from all of them to narrow down the possible error that was occurring. another random error was that the angle of release was not always held steady, which could have skewed the angle over time measurements. this error was avoided by having another individual hold a protractor until another let go of the mass all together. the systematic error that was found in this experiment was that when the mass was released, the pendulum was not always following a straight line, which caused the period to not be correct as the mass was swinging at an angle. this error was corrected by holding the string tight before releasing, and if the string was observed to not be moving in a straight line, the results of that test were removed.

the constraint that was always constant in this experiment was the force of earth’s gravity acting on the pendulum. if the gravity changed, was different, or if there was no gravity at all, the pendulum’s results would have been different from what was obtained. the results of this experiment are correct because the force of gravity is constant throughout.