discussion

in the experiment we tested the hypothesis, the length of the period of a pendulum will be affected by the mass of a pendulum. this hypothesis was incorrect and should be changed to, the mass of a pendulum does not affect the period of a pendulum. this change in our hypothesis comes from our data which was collected in lab period one. the data points create a trendline and there is no significant slope in the trendline. the only change comes from the random error which would mostly come from the stopwatch. so in conclusion we found that the period of the pendulum is not affected by the mass of the pendulum.

the second hypothesis that we tested in the experiment was, the length of a period of a pendulum will be affected by the angle that the period was released at. after testing this hypothesis we revised it to, the angle of release of a pendulum does not affect the period of a pendulum. this revision is justified by the data we collected during lab period 1. the graphs trendline does not have a significant slope so the independent variable does not affect the dependent variable. there is some slope which is caused by random error. this error mostly comes from the stopwatch.

the third hypothesis that we tested was, the length of the period of a pendulum will be affected by the length of the string of a pendulum. this hypothesis was correct and is justified by the data that was collected during lab period 1. in the data from lab 1 there is a positive correlation in the data of the independent variable and the dependent variable.

after finding that the period of a pendulum was affected by the length of the pendulum further experimentation was conducted on the hypothesis. using a laser sensor, the period of the pendulum at different lengths was measured. then using excel data analysis a equation was found to determine the period of a pendulum. the equation is 0.2077x^0.4919. once the units are converted and the equation is simplified the equation is 2*pi * sqrt(length/gravity). the lab data that was collected justifies this formula. using the equation and the lengths of our trials the period was found mathematically. these periods are extremely close to the measured values that were found during lab 3. this equation is also verified by lab group number 2. their data also shows that the formula that we found using our data works to determine the period of the pendulum. the values are not exact because of random errors in the experiment.

in this experiment there are two types of errors involved. there are random errors involved in this lab. a random error is a error that can not be prevented. random errors in this lab include using a stopwatch with human error involved. another random error is the angle that the pendulum was released at. the angle on each release won’t be perfect and some error will be included. we attempted to prevent random errors by using a laser sensor during the third lab period. the lab also included systematic errors which are errors that can not be prevented and can only be changed by modifying the system. in this lab we had a systematic error which was taking the time of only one period. this error was prevented by changing our experiment to take the average of 5 periods.

there are multiple constraints in this experiment. these are that the angle of release has to be less than 30 degrees. if the angle was greater than 30 degrees then the data becomes inaccurate due to the pendulum swinging rapidly and at the ends of the period the weight starts to jump. if the angle is greater than 30 degrees the pendulum also starts to swing in the z direction.

so in conclusion during this lab we tested if the independent variables of mass of the pendulum, length of the pendulum, and angle of release affect the dependent variable which is the period of the pendulum. after running experiments we came to the conclusion that only the length of the string affects the period of the pendulum.