conclusion:



the purposes of these labs were, to develop mathematical models which describe the behavior of a system as well as to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value included in the models. 

	we attained our models by conducting experiments and graphing the results, we then used excel to find the equations, you can see our models and graphs in the section above. there are two mathematical structures for the models $y=m x+b$ and $y=m x b$ in this situation the y is the acceleration and the x is in the first model the force of the hanging mass and in the second model the total mass. that leaves us with the question of, what do m and b represent? m represents 1/mass and b represents mass/force. for the models we got from the two experiments, excluding the second model which is the power model shown on graph 2, in the first section, you can demonstrate how changing the situation can change the values of these constants, for instance the b started at  (-0.0356) when the slope was 0.25 in and decreased to (-0.0578) when it was raised to 0.5in and then to (-0.1146) at 0.75in. this makes sense since the mass is not changing but the net force is the denominator is not changing but the numerator is decreasing so you end up with a smaller number. the same graphs as before can give evidence to the meaning of m as well if m is 1/mass then it should not change in each test because the total mass is not changing, and this is represented in our findings, excluding the power model again, the m in each model is very close to the m in all of the other models.
the first groups finding support our claims because the b doses not follow a pattern it simply varies, which is consistent with the experiment they conducted with magnets, the force and the mass would not change so the b would not change, and the variation could be from random error or a lurking variable. the m stays the same as we found ourselves. 
the second groups findings agree with our own, their increments were a little smaller when raising the slope so the difference in not as noticeable, but the same trends in m and b are shown. 
there were the usual chances for error in these labs is  human error in calculations, error in measurement tools, and error due to environmental changes. we tried to minimize human involvement and used the same instruments for all of the trials to minimize the first two instances of error, there could be more done in those two areas but we did not have the capability to do so at the time. you could also control the environment more closely if you had the resources. 
ore conclusions hold for the type of system we tested, the conclusions cannot be applied with any certainty to a different system, especially if there are other factors not present in our system.
ore conclusion on what the constant are agrees with newton’s second law and you can prove this with algebra the model we go in constants looks like this $a=\frac{f}{m}$ which can be re arranged into $a=\frac{f}{m}$ which can then be arranged into $f=m a$ which is newton's second law.