discussion and conclusion:

	again, the research question that was being asked during this experiment was is  what impacts the period of a pendulum? when the group changed the angle of release, all other factors were held as constant as could be which include the mass of the object and the length of the string. this allowed the group to test the research question to see if the angle of release changed the period of the pendulum. the group noticed that the angle of release did not affect the period of the pendulum. it seemed to have taken the same time to complete the swing no matter the angle of release the error. as seen from the first graph in figure 3, the large error bars all overlap with each other, which is a clear sign that as the angle of release changes, the period of the pendulum remains constant.

	furthermore, when the group changed the mass of the object, all other factors were held as constant as could be which include the angle of release and the length of the string. this allowed the group to test the research question to see if the mass of the object changed the period of the pendulum. the group noticed that the mass of the object did not affect the period of the pendulum. the second graph in image 3 shows the relation between the mass of the weight and the period of the pendulum. like the angle of release vs. period graph, the large error bars overlap with each other showing that as the mass of the object increases or decreases, there is no change in the period of the pendulum.

	finally, the group changed the length of the string while keeping all other factors were held constant which includes the mass of the object and the angle of release, the group saw a relation. keeping the other variables constant allowed the group to test the research question to see if the length of the string changed the period of the pendulum. a claim was made that the length of the string directly affects the period of the pendulum. this can be backed up with our data from multiple experiments. as seen in the last graph on image 3, the smaller error bars (than the other two graphs) of the data points do not overlap, which help to validate the claim that the length of the string affects the period of the pendulum. image 4 shows 14 trials of this experiment and recorded with a photogate to help reduce error. this image shows that as the length of the string increased, so did the period of the pendulum. the group decided that a power curve would better represent the relation between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum, which is shown in image 2. this equation is very similar to the true equation which relates the period of a pendulum to the length of a string, $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ where t is the period of the pendulum (s), l is the length of the string(m), and g is the acceleration due to gravity (m/s^2). again, figure 2 gives the equation of the mathematical model which is very similar to the true formula for the period of a pendulum. the line on the graph was a result of curve fitting and the equation of the line represents the true formula.

	as with every experiment comes errors in the procedure. the group has defined the random errors to be timing error from stopwatch usage, angle of measurement by human eye, measurement of the string. the systematic errors in this experiment were found to be that heavier masses would cause the string to be more taught and would change the overall length of the string, the measuring tape was not verified to be accurate, and the mass was not measured to be verified as accurate. in order to decrease the random error, the team thought it would be best to take more samples to decrease the room for random error. also, the group thought to use more precise measuring devices like dial calipers and using a scale to measure the weight of the object could reduce the systematic error in this experiment. there were many constraints on this experiment that could have altered how well the data turned out to be. the most obvious constraint on the experiment was the time to complete the assignment, this made the group feel rushed and panicked. also, if better instruments were used to record the data, like the photogate at the end, more accurate data could have been recorded.