discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this lab was to create mathematical models for a real system and to develop an understanding of the variables and constants which make up the equations. 

in the first experiment for lab 05, determining the effect of mass 1 (the mass of the cart) on acceleration, we used equipment to gather graphs of the force of the cart when it hit the end of the track for different m1 values. by taking the slope of these, we were able to determine the acceleration of the cart. this was plotted in excel as the dependent variable, while the mass of the cart was the independent variable. by using excel’s trendline function, we generated a mathematical model of $y=0.174468 x$. the variable y is the acceleration of the cart, x represents the mass of the cart, and the variable 0.186 represents the force exerted by gravity on the hanging mass. in the second experiment of lab 05 for the effect of the hanging mass of the acceleration of the system, we again graphed force over time of the cart to find acceleration. a plot was created in excel with acceleration on the y axis and the force from the hanging mass on the x axis. the trendline function gave us a mathematical of $y=0.1371 x - 0.0083$ where y is the acceleration of the cart, x is the force from m2, the constant 0.1371 is 1 divided by the mass of the system, and the negative constant at the end is due to some other force such as tilt of the track or friction. experiment 06 again used the slope of the data gathered by the force sensor to find acceleration values, this time three different models were created for the three different inclines at which we tested. these three equations all have a very similar constant in front of x, which represents the mass of the system. as the height increases, the absolute value of the constant being subtracted increases as well. since the slope of the track results in a decrease in acceleration, this constant (c2) represents the friction acting against the cart. 
the models from group 5 show that a forward tilt (i.e. where the cart is travelling downhill) causes a positive constant to be added to the end rather than a negative constant as was seen with the backward tilt. this means that as the tilt increases, the greater the acceleration of the cart, which is what would be expected. the models from group 6 show that the higher the magnetic field on the cart, the lower the acceleration because they had similar slopes but increasingly negative constants on the end of their equations as the number of magnets was increased. 

one systematic error found in lab 05 which might have affected the data is the slope of the track. at the end of lab 05, we turned on our track and let go of the cart, with no mass attached, and noticed that our cart moved slightly towards the pulley, indicating a forward tilt was present. as the data from group 5 shows, a forward tilt means our actual values for acceleration would be slightly greater than the expected values. a way to reduce error from the tilt of the track is to use a level to make sure the track is completely flat before conducting the trials. another error which may have been present is different friction at different points along the track. however, since we used the same starting position for each trial, this can be assumed to be negligible. 

some constraints of this experiment which may limit the generalizability of these results are that we only tested between .3018 kg and .7518 kg for mass of the cart, between 0 and .045 kg for the hanging mass, and slope from 0 to .12 m. 

our mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law because both models are in the form $a =\frac{f}{m}$, which is a rearrangement of newton’s $f = m a$.