conclusion:
the purpose of this lab was to understand what forces affect each other in a real life environment.  it is seen by the graphs and data how the force of and object is needed to increase when the friction on and object is increased.  also it is seen how force and acceleration are directly related that when the acceleration of an object increases so does the force of that object. lastly this is the same as how mass and acceleration are in a negative power relationship because as mass decreases so does the acceleration.
in the first experiment we see the main equation is $f=m a$ and it is simply explained that the first part where we compare force and acceleration is makes sense that with more force there will be more acceleration.  in the second experiment we see that will less mass there is less acceleration because the mass was pulling the cart and with less mass there is less force which will mean there is less acceleration. in the second experiment we see the same equation used because it is still dealing with force, mass, and acceleration.  the graph shows that when the friction rises so does the force needed to push it because friction causes it to be harder to push and it needs a bigger force to push it to be able to be at a constant rate.  
this white board of group number 6 agrees with our work very clearly that the magnets cause friction and as the more magnets are added the force needed to keep a constant acceleration must be increased as well.
errors that may have affected our results may have been present in our experiment that would have affected our results would be the possibility of the computer not producing the correct graphs and data because we did run into that problem before.  also, the possibility that the friction was uneven on the track so the results were not accurate.  also that the weights were not evenly distributed causing slight error.
constraints that may have limited the generalizability of our results may be that the bobbers were not the exact same weight giving us some error.  also, if we could reduce the amount of air resistance in lab 06 it would cause less error and allow a better generalizability.
our two experimental mathematical models are consistent with newtons law because $f=m a$ is newtons law and when you get to the basics of these two models that is all we are looking for.  we are showing in the first lab that as the force increases so does the acceleration and that when the mass is increased to pull the car the acceleration is increased.  in the second lab we are showing how when the friction is increased the car slows down and to make it stay at a constant rate of acceleration we must increase the force linearly with the amount of friction.