discussion and conclusion

in investigating what affects the period of a pendulum, three experiments were used. these three experiments addressed the research question by identifying threes potential affects that would alter the period of pendulum, and then in each experiment isolating one of variables as the independent variable, while the others are held constant. in the first experiment wherein the length of the string was the independent variable, while mass and the angle of release were held constant, it was found that the period of the pendulum would increase as the length of the string increased. this was similar to the claim made in table 1.1. it is evident to see the relationship by looking at the graph in figure 2.1. because the uncertainty of the initial point and the uncertainty of the final point do not overlap it is reasonable to claim that the period of a pendulum is directly affected by length of the string. during the second experiment it was found that the mass of the pendulum did affect the period of the pendulum. by looking at the graph in figure 2.2, the uncertainties do not overlap so there is some correlation due to mass. this is contrary to the predication, and hypothesis made in table 1.2.  in the third experiment, the angle of release was the independent variable. by looking at the graph in figure 2.3, it is shown that the uncertainties overlap so no relationship can be claimed. this matches with the hypothesis made in table 1.3. 

the simple gravity pendulum represents the theoretical model of a pendulum used in this experiment. the data as shown in table 2.1 fits with the theoretical model’s data in that length of the pendulum is proportional to the period of the pendulum. the data from table 2.2 and table 2.3 does not fit with the theoretical models. the data from our experiment shows that mass will affect the period while the theoretical models does not. this could be due to error in our experiment. in addition, the theoretical model says that the angle of release will affect period of a pendulum at small amounts. the data shown in table 2.3 does not fit with this but the precision of the angles in our experiment is large, and small increments of angles were not tested. 

the errors that were in the experiment included the systematic error of reaction time, a systematic error of parallax or the perspective from which the timer is timing, the random error of the measurement of angle of release, string length, and mass. the systematic errors can be reduced by finding different options of procedure. for example, period could be measured by a machine or photo analysis instead of relying on humans. the random errors can be reduced by increasing the precision of the measurement and repeating multiple trials to reduce the affect of outlying trials. 

some constraints that affect the general ability of the results is that in our experiment there were a limited amount of trials tested due to time constraint, so that could increase the effect of random errors, and the overall general ability of the results.