discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of lab 05 was to understand how the mass of the cart and the applied force affect the cart’s acceleration and develop a mathematical model for both these variables in the air track system. the purpose of lab 06 was to be able to identify other factors that would affect the cart’s acceleration and apply that in our experiment. we also needed to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value included in the model.

the mathematical model for applied force versus acceleration in lab 05 is $y=2.6479 x + 0.0118$. we get the 2.6479 from the rate at which the acceleration is increased while adding a single bobber to the applied force. the .0118 is the y-intercept, meaning that is the acceleration we calculated with 0 applied force. the mathematical model for mass versus acceleration in lab 05 is $y=0.3434 x - 0.933$. the .3434 comes from the rate at which the acceleration is changed when 100 grams were added. the -0.933 comes from the rate at which the rate itself changes. it is negative because the graph continuously has a negative slope. the mathematical model for applied force versus acceleration for lab 06 is around 2.72x+0.06 for all the declined plane values. the slope (2.72) would decrease when the angles would increase. also, the y-intercept (0.06) would increase while the angles increased. it is the complete opposite if you are looking at the inclined plane graph because the numbers are representing negative acceleration. the mathematical models are a direct result from the graphed data.


the other group’s have similar results meaning that our experiment should be accurate. the numbers indicate slope of the line and y-intercept. the slope is the rate of change between applied force and acceleration when testing different angles. the y-intercept is what the acceleration is when there is no applied force, only slight incline. 

there may have been systematic error due to the friction of the string. the string did not make the pulley completely frictionless. another systematic error would be that the string was wrapped around the cart because it was too long which may have cause even more friction and making the applied force come from somewhere else. a random error that may have occurred could be that we didn’t set the cart in the exact spot on the track every time down to the millimeter. 

constraints limiting our generalizability of our results include the type of string used, the air track was only so long and only so frictionless, the program we used on the computer to calculate the acceleration is only so accurate, and the blocks we used to elevate the track and compute for different angles were only so large.

our mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law, $f=m a$, because we were always computing for acceleration and that equation would read $a=\frac{f}{m}$. this explains why when our independent variable was applied force, the model was linear and when the independent variable was mass, our graph was negative exponential.