discussion and conclusion:

 the purpose of the lab was to investigate and extract mathematical models that would describe the acceleration of a system and understand what each variable and numerical value indicated in the model



 we were able to create mathematical models through graphing the forced applied vs the acceleration for the data collected in the three experiments that we conducted. from these graphs, we were able to use excel to give us trend lines with the equation and r^2 values for each experiment. looking at figure 1 and 2 we the get the equations $y=2.8295 x - 0.013$ and $y=0.2955 x^{-1.222}$. from these two mathematical models, we can make generalized mathematical models in which we get $a=c f + c$ and $a=c1 m^{-c2}$. from these mathematical models we were able to use dimensional analysis to conclude that c1 represented the inverse of mass and c2 represented external forces such as friction. looking at figures 3-8 we can see that the trend line equation matches the $a=c f + c$ format which allows us to conclude that the c2 values in those equations represent the friction occurring. if you compare each equation from figures 3-8 we see the c1 value is about the same for each one which makes sense since they all have the same mass, however looking at the c2 value you will notice that as the number of magnets increase the value of c2 decrease which shows an increase in friction due to friction having a negative direction.

  using the data in the excel sheet provided to the class in replacement of other groups work we can see the tilt data also produced a mathematical model that has a linear format and using the same dimensional analysis process we used in ours, we see that our model $a=c f + c$ with c1 being the inverse of mass and c2 being external forces can also be applied and supported by the data collected by the tilt experiment. comparing the numerical values between the tilted data and the magnet data we can see the c2 value increase as the independent variable increased for the titled experiment and the c2 value decreased as the independent variable increase in the magnet experiment. this makes sense because when the tilt is increased so is the force of gravity on the system and since that is an external force, it is represented in a positive increase c2 value whereas the magnet experiment case, the external force is friction which would be subtracting away from the net force which is shown through its decreasing negative value.

  in this lab, there were lots of places where systematic and random error could have occurred. some examples of systematic error that happened in this lab are using magnets that weren’t strong enough to produce data that showed an obvious behavior, making sure that the track is completely level and not tilted to one side, and the tape not completely securing the magnet to the cart. to fix these errors we could start out by find much stronger magnets and using those, use a balance on the track to make sure that it is completely level and use velcro or built-in compartments on the cart to secure the magnets. some examples of random error that occurred in the lab would be from the scale for weighing and the computer program for measuring the acceleration and the uncertainties that come with them.

  some constraints that we had were the number of magnets that we could put onto the cart, the number of bobbers that we could attach, and the maximum and minimum mass of the cart.

  our two mathematical models are consistent with newton's second law because as we added more magnets, we know that the force of friction on the system was increasing due to the decreasing c2 value (increase in friction) in our mathematical model. for the model $a=c f + c$   we are adding friction and not changing the force of gravity and they work in the opposite direction of each other, the net force of the system will decrease. we also did not change the mass of the system so we know that the only other factor that can balance out the decrease in the net force is acceleration. from this, we can conclude that the acceleration will have to decrease to make up for the decrease in net force. from this we can confidently conclude with support from newton's second law for our mathematical model, the acceleration of a system will decrease as the force of friction is increased. for the second mathematical model, $a=c1 m^{-c2}$, this time the net force of the experiment was being held constant since we weren’t adding or subtracting to the hanging bobbers but instead the weight of the system was increasing. looking at the net force equation, $f_{net}=m a$, we see that to keep fnet constant with a rising m value, we would need a decrease in the acceleration which shows in our model.