conclusion:

the purpose of this two-part series of experimentation was to develop mathematical models which describe the behavior of a system in relation to factors that could influence its behavior and to foster an understanding for each variable, coefficient, and constant included in the determined mathematical models. 
the experimentation of lab 5 determined a mathematical model by using the data points from the trials of testing force and testing mass (respectively) and compiling a graph of those points (refer to figures 1 and 2 displayed previously). these graphs provided an equation of the best fit line, which served as the mathematical model. this was the exact same process of lab 6. studying these mathematical models led to a solid understanding of the physical meaning of each variable, coefficient, and constant. 
for the mathematical model resulting from testing of force’s impact on acceleration, if 1 newton is 1 kg*m/s^2, then the constant must be representing the mass of the object. the force is in newtons or kg*m/s^2; the m/s^2 is cancelled out by the acceleration (whose units are m/s^2) and the only aspect for the constant to represent is the mass. the force in the system and the mass in the system are the ones that contributed to the mathematical model, as the any other influencer (such as friction) were eliminated by the air track. the force is represented by the “f” variable (or the “x” variable in the original equation).
for the mathematical model resulting from testing of mass’s impact on acceleration, the constant 0.1936 must be representing m/kg and the constant exponent -1.546 must be representing s^-2. this would make sense as the acceleration is in units of m/s^2, so the units on the other side of the equation must cancel to equal m/s^2. the constant 0.1936  representing m/kg would multiply with the mass in kg and cancel out the kg. this leaves m and s^-2 remaining. the mass is represented by the “m” variable (or the “x” variable in the original equation).
for the mathematical model resulting from testing friction, the coefficient represents the inverse of the mass of the system as per newton’s second law. the constant value represents the second force/ mass of the system. 
below is displayed the findings of lab group 2 for lab 6. their results were reinforced our interpretation of our results, as they also found similar (through not congruent) slopes for their mathematical models, and had strong correlations between their variables tested (as seen through the high r-squared values). the source of differences in our lab data could be due to outliers in the data obtained by group 2 when collected acceleration measurements for their cart.
displayed below are the conclusions drawn by lab group 3, which furthered our understanding of the system that we are testing in lab 6. their tested independent variable (forward tilt of the air track) had a negative impact on the dependent variable (acceleration of the system), as the acceleration decreased more when the tilt of the air track was increased. the forward tilt of the air track had more of an impact on acceleration than our variable, friction, had since there was a correlation between tilt and acceleration while there was no correlation between friction and acceleration. 
throughout the course of this series of experiments, there were sources for error. there could be systematic error in all experiments if the frictionless track is not actually frictionless, and allows some frictional force against the cart due to faulty manufacturing and aging equipment; there could also be systematic error if the datastudios program is not effectively measuring the velocity and/or time (consistently measuring slower or faster velocities or times). to combat this, the data measured from the track and from the data studios program can be measured with other groups’ measurements to confirm accuracy of the equipment; if there is discrepancy, the magnitude of inaccuracy can be determined, and the values obtained from the faulty equipment can be adjusted accordingly. 
a source of random error in lab 5 could be not using all the data points in the datastudios results to calculate the acceleration, which could make the slope slightly higher or lower than its supposed to be. sources of random error in lab 6 can include not starting or stopping the datastudios program at exactly the right time for accurate measurements. random errors like this can be eliminated by repeating the experiment many times which can account for those mistakes. 
constraints of this series of experiments stem from working in a college physics laboratory room; this constrains how far the cart could run on the track, as well as the sophistication of the cart and the equipment used for measurements. the duration of the lab period (two hours) also constrained the amount of trials that could be run of each amount of friction, force applied, and mass; therefore, this enabled the influence of random error on the data to grow slightly larger.
the mathematical models obtained throughout this series of experiments are consistent with newton’s second law in that the results followed $f = m a$ as there was more force in the system, the acceleration increased; this follows an implication of newton’s second law that force and acceleration are directly proportional when mass is held constant. as there was more mass applied in the system, the acceleration decreased; this follows an implication of newton’s second law in that mass and acceleration are inversely proportional when the force is held constant.