conclusion:	
For these labs, we were attempting to piece together the variables that might have effect on the period of the pendulum. After discussion, we have predicted that the variables that are most likely to affect the period of the pendulum are the length of the string (in cm), the mass of the weight, (in g), and the angle at which the mass is released in relation to the pivot of the pendulum. For our first attempt investigating the three variables we predicted that the mass would not have an effect but that the angle of release as well as the length of the string (cm) would influence the Period (s) of the pendulum. However, based on the formula for finding the period of the pendulum that is based on the observations of scientists, we hypothesized that only the length of the string (cm) affected the period of the pendulum (s) whereas our alternative hypothesis was that the mass and the angle of release affected our period. We decided to test our prediction and tested all three variables.
	For our first attempt, i.e. Lab 1, we were supplied with a stand, stopwatch, tape measure, and a pendulum with a string. Then, we did no have an accurate measurement tool to determine the time it took for a single period, so to minimize error, we had to take the average time of multiple swings and use that as a close estimation for our time for one swing (s). For this lab, we had 3 testable hypotheses is 
The mass (kg) does not influence the period (s) of the pendulum
The length of string (cm) does not influence the period (s) of the pendulum
The angle of release does not influence the period (s) of the pendulum

For testing the weight as a variable, we set the pendulum up with a constant length. For this experiment, the constant length was chosen 40 cm. However, the exact length doesn’t matter if the length (cm) and the angle of release are both kept constant. We used three different masses for three different trials each. The three masses were of 50g, 90g, and 130g. For each mass, release the mass from the angle of elevation and allow it to oscillate 10 times and record the time it takes to complete those swings. We then divided the time in seconds by 10 to determine the average time for one oscillation. Record this value for each trial. 
For testing the effect of the length on the period we attached a constant mass to the end of the string. For this experiment, the mass chosen was 90 g. However, the exact mass doesn’t matter if it is kept constant. We used a constant angle of release for each trial. For the first three trials, we used a measured length of 30 cm for the string and then for the next three trials, we increased the length of the string attached to the constant mass to 40cm. For the final three trials, we used a longer length of 50 cm. For each trial, we released the weight from the desired angle and allowed it to oscillate 10times. We then recorded the time it took to complete those swings. We divided that value of time by 10 to determine the average time for one oscillation and recorded this value for each trial. 
For testing the effect of the angle of elevation we performed the same method for finding out the period except that this time, we kept the length of the length and the mass constant and we changed the angle of release. For the first three trials, we released the pendulum from an angle of 30 degrees from the pivot and then, released the same pendulum from an angle of 40 degrees for the next 3 trials and then from an angle of 50 for the final three trials. For each trial, we recorded the time it takes the system to complete 10 oscillations, and then divided that time by 10 to find and record the average time.


	When investigating the effect of the variables on the period of the pendulum, we ended up taking 3 different trials and averaging them out and then graphing them. Once they were graphed, we used Excel to find the formula of the lines as well as the R-squared value of the graph. For the graph relating to the effects of weight on the period we have found that there was little to no correlation between the weight of the ball at the end of the pendulum and the period of the pendulum since the R-squared value of the graph is 0.0116 which suggest little to no correlation. When investigating the effects of Length on the period, we have found for there to be a strong correlation with a linear trendline and a high R-squared value of 0.9969 whereas the effects of the angle on the period showed an exponential trend with a weak linear correlation. In conclusion, we ended up accepting our initial prediction and we rejected our first null hypothesis and accepted the other two.
	For our second lab, we had to investigate the possible sources of error that might have occurred to better figure out our sources of error and mishaps we repeated the experiment with a larger range of data listed below is 
We then re drew the plots only this time, we included error bars, so we can definitively state which independent variables affected the dependent variable i.e. Period of the pendulum.
 

This further supported our conclusion found in our first lab. The sources of error were both Random and Systematic and that assisted in adversely impacting the overall accuracy of the values. 
 Even though we took the average of 10 oscillations and did our best in making sure the timing was as consistent and accurate as possible, there was still human error playing in effect. We might have taken too long to start/stop the clock or we might have done the last period (out of 10) without waiting for the pendulum to have a velocity of 0m/s i.e. it’s at the end of its period Another form of error that we had noticed was that, when released, the ball would appear to rotate around in a manner that suggested that there was an external force acting on it other than gravity forcing it to move in the z axis instead of limiting it to the x and y. We have determined that it was most likely due to the way it was released from a position different to $z=0.0$. Furthermore, it was very tricky for us to get the exact angle of release to keep it constant when testing for weight and length of string and that might have also adversely affected the accuracy of our results 
The system was not optimized for testing the length of rope and keeping it constant for that matter. The rope would often get stretched and we would not get an exact value. The scale given to measure the weight was a triple beam balance and thus we had no was to get accurate weight measurements either. There was also imperfect friction between the string and the stand when the bob was released.
In order to reduce the errors mentioned above, we were supplied with a photogate and an apparatus show below is 

The photogate is an extremely accurate form of time measurement device that can be used to accurately state the time period of the pendulum by letting the mass pass through the photogate. We then repeated the experiment by testing on the only variable we found to have a correlation to the period of the pendulum which was the length of the string. We attached a constant mass of 90 g to the end of the string.  We also kept the angle of release constant at 40 degrees. For the first three trials, we used a measured length of 70 cm for the string and then decreased the length in equal intervals or as close as possible to equal for 5 or more trials. For each trial, we released the weight from the desired angle and allow it to oscillate 10 times. We then recorded the time it takes as displayed on the photogate


We came to the conclusion that the period of the pendulum is directly proportional to some power of the length of the string considering the angle of release is constant as well as the conditions are favorable. The mass does not affect the period of the pendulum since the experiments showed no correlation. The data collected during lab had an R^2 value of 0.9978 which indicated a very strong correlation. Furthermore, the coefficient we found in the formula is very close to that of the actual formula for determining the period from the length of the pendulum. There was an uncertainty range of 0.001 in the photogate but other that error is negligible.


