discussion and conclusion:

 the research question for this experiment is what impacts the period of the pendulum. the three variables tested were the weight of the pendulum, length of the string, and the angle of release. the experiment testing the independent variable of weight was predicted to show a reverse relationship with the dependent variable, the period. the data collected showed that the weight of the pendulum does not impact the pendulum. figure 5 depicts the low r-squared value and the low correlation between the weight and period. the plot also shows the data doesn’t fit the trendline. the experiment testing the independent variable angle of release was predicted to be inversely related to the dependent variable, the period. the data collected showed the angle of release has low correlation. although the figures 8 and 9 show a high correlation, this came from an error with lack of data and consistency of timing. the figures only go up by a fraction of a second with error bars overlapping. the overlapping of the error bars is the reason for the conclusion of low correlation between angle of release and the period. the final experiment tested the independent variable length of string versus the dependent variable, the period. figure 3 shows the data collected has a high correlation. the r-squared value is .9972 and the trendline fits the data with a very high positive correlation. the data proves the prediction of a direct relationship between the length of the string and the period to be true. the mathematical model in figure $t =0.0135 l + 0.733$ fits the length of string data collected. the trendline runs through most of the data with little variation. the other mathematical models in figure 6 and 9 do not fit the data collected.

   the source of systematic error in the experiments is the timing of the period. the possible error is with the photogate not being properly calibrated. this would result in the data being a side error, meaning the time could be to long or short for the true time of the period. the possible random error in the experiment is human error with timing of the 5 periods. the person could stop the timer to early or late not measuring the true time of the 5 periods. to eliminate this random error, the photogate was utilized. the photogate significantly reduced the error in time producing more precise data. the second source of random error is the release angle of the pendulum. the protector used only measure degrees by whole integers and the distance between the marks made it very hard to get an accurate angle of release consistently. the minimize the error of the release angle, one person dropped the pendulum at their reading on the protractor. also the protractor was held in the same place.