discussion:

	there were three factors that we tested in this experiment in order to discover what would affect the period of a pendulum. those three factors consisted of the object’s weight, the angle of release, and the length of the string. although there may have been other pieces that might have played a small role in affecting the period, these were agreed to be the most important ones.

	for the first test, as displayed in table 1, the factor we decided to make independent was the angle of release. we chose this one first because our original hypothesis was that the angle would not affect the period. if proven true, this hypothesis would make the rest of the experimenting much easier and more efficient. for the second test, as displayed in table 2, we made the weight of the object the independent variable. based on prior knowledge, we also hypothesized that this factor would not have a huge affect on the period of the pendulum. finally, the third test we executed, as displayed in table 3, was the affect the length of the string had on the pendulum. we knew that at least one of these three factors was probably going to make a difference in the period, so we decided the length of the string would be of the highest likelihood to do so.

	the data we recorded was then plotted on three different graphs (figures 1-3) and gave a solid visual of the affect each factor had on the length of the period. for the weight of the object, as shown in figure 2, the slope of the line indicated a very slight downward trend. however, the error bars overlapped each other quite heavily, which means that 95% of the data could be the same in each circumstance. therefore, we concluded that the weight of the objects did not play a key role in affecting the length of the period. for the angle of release, as shown in figure 3, again it appeared that the data seemed to have a very slight upwards trend. however, since the error bars almost completely overlapped each other once again, it was concluded that the angle of release also did not factor into the length of the period, to a certain degree (which was around 30 degrees based on the data collected). for the length of the string, as shown in figure one, the length of the period clearly and substantially increased as the length of the string was increased. since the error bars shown on the graphs do not overlap at all, it could be concluded that the length of the string was a factor in affecting the length of the period.

	after coming to this conclusion, we rethought the processes we did to come to it, and how to improve upon the accuracy of our data. since we used sound lab equipment properly and dealt with no serious systematic error, we knew it had to be random error. the highest chance of error seemed to have something to do with the stopping and starting of our timers (incorporated human error), so the clear solution would have to do with this. in order to reduce the amount of error in the data, we swapped the timers for a photogate, so that it would start and stop the pendulum immediately once crossing the laser. after running through this experiment again, the data displayed a very accurate power curve with almost no error, and the conclusion was thus proven even further that length of the string will indeed affect the length of the period.

	the biggest constraint that is present in our conclusion is gravity. our claim that length of the string affected the length of the period was only proven true under circumstances where there was constant gravity. another constraint that we found was the angle of release. if the object was released at an angle greater than about 30 degrees, our conclusion that the angle had no affect would not be proven true.