discussion and conclusion:

	the purpose of this lab was to determine how the acceleration of a system is affected by different magnitudes of applied force; in this case the force was the force of gravity. the slope represents acceleration over force, or the inverse of mass as derived from newton’s second law, and the y-intercept represents the result of unaccounted for forces impacting the acceleration of the system.

	the experiments’ results led to our result mathematical models and interpretations because of the variables used to conduct our experiment. the variables used were all part of newton’s second law ($f = m a$), which led to the interpretation of the numbers as they would appear if newton’s second law was rearranged. in the first graph, we had a larger y-intercept, which means that there are some outside forces affecting acceleration, resulting in a changed slope as well. as the elevation of one side of the track increased, the y-intercept got smaller, meaning that either the track was unlevel, or that the new force added into the system canceled out with the old outside forces.

this was the only available whiteboard from another group at the completion of the lab period, and it was completed by group 3. they found that the increase in friction due to magnets caused a decrease in acceleration. because a mathematical model was not used or compared in their presentation of their findings, the only thing that this helps me understand is that forces outside of the force of gravity affect the gravity more the larger they are.

i believe that the biggest systematic error in our experiment was an unlevel track. i believe that the track was sloped slightly upward in the direction that the cart was being pulled by the force of gravity. another random error could have been friction, although this would be a very small error because the air track makes friction almost entirely negligible. the tilt in the track was reduced in the second experiment by putting plates underneath one end of it so that it sloped in the opposite direction. the slight friction force, however, cannot easily be reduced unless a better air track is bought.

these mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law because if you substitute any two pieces of our data for it’s appropriate variable in newton’s second law and solve for the remaining variable, you will end up with a value that is close to our experimental value.