discussion and conclusion 
the main goal of labs 5 and 6 were to observe what variables affect the acceleration of a sled on an air track, and how. the first variable that was tested was force applied, where overall mass was held constant. this was done by first weighing the overall mass of the sled with the string attached, and the weight of all the bobbers to be used in the experiment. all the bobbers were attached to the sled, then placed on a level track with the air off. one bobber was moved to the end of the string so that the sled would move forward when the air was turned on. given the weight of one bobber, multiplied by the force of gravity, the applied force in the system was calculated. the acceleration of the sled was then measured using the rotary motion detector. after each run, the sled was moved back to its original location, and then a bobber was moved from the sled to the string. doing this allowed the overall mass of the system to remain constant, while increasing the force applied. after all the bobbers were moved to the string, the collected data was put into a table (table 1) so a graph could be made. graph 1 shows the data that was obtained for this experiment. an equation for a line of best fit was generated to be $a=2.4033 f + 0.0765$. the r2 value for this line was 0.9794, indicating a very close relationship between the actual data and the trend line.
the second variable that was tested was increasing mass in the system, where the force applied was held constant. this was done by placing all the bobbers on the end of the string, given their total weight multiplied by gravity, the force applied for the system was calculate, and held constant for the remainder of the experiment. however, in this experiment, for each test, the mass was increased. this was done by placing brass weights onto the sled itself. each time the mass was increased by 50 grams, and the acceleration was measured using the rotary motion detector. table 2 shows the data collected for this experiment. using that data, a graph was created to create a line of best fit. graph 2 shows that data and the equation for the line that was obtained. the equation generated was $a=- 495.8205 f$. the r2 value was 0.9908, indicating a very strong relationship between the trend line and the actual data. what is different about this experiment was that the relationship between the tested variable were non-linear, as opposed to all of the other experiments. this is due to the fact that for each run, the overall mass of the system was increased. 
the third variable that was tested was the angle at which the track was placed, where the force applied was increased on each run, but the overall mass of the system was held constant. the third variable with the track angle consisted of three experiments, where the angle of the track was placed at an incline of 0.267, then 0.444 degrees, then finally at a decline of -0.444 degrees. for these three experiments, the angle of the track remained at a constant angle, then the acceleration was measured using the rotary motion detector. for each angle, the force applied was increased on each run by moving the bobbers from the sled to the string. the acceleration was measured each time and recorded. using the information collected in tables 3, 4, and 5, graphs were created to observe the slopes of the lines and how they differed. using the data plotted, lines of best fit were generated. for the 0.267-degree ramp, the equation of the line was $a=2.8534 f - 0.0664$. the 0.444-degree ramp had an equation of $a=2.7872 f - 0.0723$. the -0.444-degree ramp had an equation of $a=2.8213 f + 0.0713$. by looking at the equations of the lines, it can be determined that how the different ramp angles affect acceleration. comparing the 2 incline ramps, the ramp that had the grater angle has a noticeably lower slope, indicating a slower rate of acceleration. by comparing the decline with the incline, the b value in the slope equation ($y = m x + b$), the incline slope has a negative value, whereas the decline slope has a positive value. this indicates that the declined track had a measurable increase in acceleration due to the force of gravity, whereas the inclined slope opposed the sleds direction of motion. 
for all three variables tested, the initial predictions made before the labs were conducted came out to be true. however, the conducted experiments did yield some random error. most notably in graph 1, where the force applied and the acceleration do not match up, which likely skewed our data, thus not giving a completely accurate slope. however, the overall patterns are still evident and observable. 
when taking into consideration all of the data that was collected from our experiments, and comparing it to the other groups, it is evident that the patterns we observed were also observed among other groups. for the first experiment conducted, other groups also concluded that the relationship between force applied and acceleration when the mass is kept constant yields a linear correlation. whereas in the second experiment, where mass was added to the system and force applied was kept constant, the relationship was nonlinear. when looking at the equations of other groups, they also had similar results with minor differences in the actual numbers. this is likely due to errors in measurement, such as weighing the sled or the bobbers, which would alter the overall results of the data. but yet the trends observed were evident across all groups and matched the ones that our group found.