discussion and conclusion	

	to reiterate, the question being investigated is what factors affect the time period of a pendulum. the experiments carried out were ones regarding the mass, angle, and length. in the first experiment, the independent variable was the mass attached to the end of the pendulum. we hypothesized that as the mass increases, the period would decrease. through the tests performed and the data collected, we can conclude that mass does not have an impact on the period of a pendulum. this is supported in graphs 1, where there is little to no correlation between mass and period. the second experiment, we tested whether the angle would impact the period of the pendulum. we hypothesized that as the angle increased, the period would increase as well. we concluded that, in general, angle does not have an impact for angles about 30o and below; however, when you reach the higher values, the period does begin to increase with the angle. the data in graph 2 shows the positive correlation between angle and period in the higher angles. finally, we tested the length of the string against the period of the pendulum. we hypothesized that as the length increases, the period would increase as well, and our results support our hypothesis. since the length had the highest impact, we performed two trials. the first, as displayed in graph 3, shows that there is a very high, positive correlation between mass and period. in graph 4, there is indication of there being perfect correlation, as the r^2 value was one; we also found the best-fit curve to be a power-curve.  

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum was 0.3197 as the coefficient, making our model very similar to the theoretical model; the theoretical model is $t = 0.3197 l^{0.5}$ while our model is $t = 0.3266 l^{0.4953}$. 

	errors that were present or could be present during our experiments are in both the random and systematic category. during the lab 01, we did not use a photogate, therefore it is possible that there was random error with our timing since we timed the period manually. possible random sources of error could stem from the angle at which the pendulum was released. this could be decreased by having a motor that will release the pendulum at the same angle every time. the variance in mass could be accounted for through the scale, as it could be labeled as a systematic error. a way to reduce this error is to calibrate it. with these said improvements, our experiments would be strengthened. 

	in this experiment, possible constraints are time and resources. since we were in a lab during a time block, we didn’t have as much time to run as many trials, possibly limiting our data. furthermore, since we were in a controlled lab, we did not have access to other materials, such as devices that will make our measurements more precise, possibly increasing our errors.