discussion and conclusion

	the question being researched during these two labs was what effect weight has on the acceleration of the cart. during the first part of the first lab, we tested the effect of hanging weight on the acceleration. this effect is displayed in figure 1. we measured the acceleration with an electronic tool to minimize error. the experiment was carried out by adding a mass at the end of a pulley system connected to the cart and measuring the corresponding acceleration. this process was carried out to produce the linear fit line visible in the graph. because there is no overlap between error bars, we can determine there is a direct relationship between force (the hanging weight) and the cart’s acceleration. by analyzing the equation produced, we can determine that the slope of this line is equal to the mass of the cart based on the formula  derived from newton’s second law. the resulting equation was $a=3.3941 f - 0.0039$ which is in the form of the equation the external force in this case was friction because the track, while being mostly frictionless, was not perfect. the second portion of our equation is being subtracted because the friction force opposes the motion of the cart. other groups in our lab section obtained similar equations which further supports our findings. in the second half of the first lab, we then tested the effect of the cart’s mass on its acceleration. we conducted the experiment by continually adding more mass to the cart while continually measuring the corresponding acceleration. the inverse relationship visible in figure 2 means that as the mass of the cart increases, the acceleration decreases. this is expected because if newton’s second law is rearranged, the resulting equation  shows this inverse relationship. the second lab was to test the effect of the angle of the track. because we knew from the first labs that the track was not perfectly level, we attempted to see how that angle affected our previous results. we put a known amount of supports under one side to change the slope of the track. this was done three times at different angles and the results were plotted in the graph displayed in figure 3. what can be concluded from the graph is that since the weights were consistent in every trial, the slope of the track only affects the y-intercept. as previously stated, the y-intercept is determined from external forces. because there was a slope in the track, an extra x-component of its weight was pulling it along with the hanging weight. it can also be seen that the slope, which is the mass of the cart, does not change. like it was stated above, some of the possible errors seen in these experiments were the fact that the track was not completely level or frictionless, but also we assumed each bobber weighed the same which could not be true and that the string was not completely weightless which causes more hanging mass. the constraints faced in these experiments were that we could not produce a completely frictionless system or various other scenarios to support our findings.