conclusion and discussion

this science experiment was conducted to find out what factors affect the period length of a pendulum. for all tests in experiment 1 the data was collected using a stopwatch. once the pendulum was released the stopwatch was started and the pendulum was allowed 5 swing before stopping the stopwatch and taking an average to reduce error. there was also a restriction of release angle being less than twenty degrees placed on all experiments.

experiment 1 is 

 in experiment 1 is  test 1 we tested if the weight of the pendulum would affect its period length. to do this we tested a variety of different weights while maintain the sting length and the release angle to be constants. through this we were able to isolate the mass as a factor and were able to access if it was affecting the period. bases on the graph for experiment 1 is  test 1 you can see that there was no correlation between the weight of the pendulum and the period.

the next variable tested was the string length and weather or not it affects the period of the pendulum. this test was achieved by holding the weight of the pendulum and the release angle to a constant. this isolated the length variables and we were able to access if there was any correlation in the data. based on the graph for experiment 1 is  test 2 you can see that there is a positive correlation under these conditions. 

the third variable tested was the release angle of the pendulum and if this affects the period length, the pendulum was tested at multiple angles. a protractor was held at the base of the string’s attachment point to the anchor and the angle was measured for different test. the control variables for this experiment were the weight of the string and the length of the string. after collecting the data, it was determined that there was no correlation between the release angle, when under the restriction of 20 degrees, and the period of the pendulum.

experiment 2 is 

experiment 2 was conducted after analyzing our data from experiment 1 and found that the standard deviation was very large and there would have been no way of making an accurate mathematical model. the procedure for the experiment was analyzed and the systematic error of the stopwatch was removed, it was replaced with a photogate accurate to 0.001s. this greatly reduced our error because it no longer depended on a person saying “go” and releasing the pendulum, and another person hearing “go” and starting the stopwatch. then to reduce the random error, more tests were conducted to give a larger sample size. it was also determined that the only variable giving any kind of effect on the period was the string length. therefore, it was decided to only test this variable.

to being testing how the string length of the pendulum affects the period, a photogate was set up and tested to be sure it was working. the weight of the pendulum was held constant and the release angle was held below 20 degrees. due to the angle of release having no affect on the period below 20 degrees it would not matter if an exact angle was held or not. the pendulum was then tested at various lengths and the data was recorded.

after this data was collected it was used to create a mathematical model for the period of a pendulum. this mathematical model ended up being extremely close to the theoretical model. the theoretical model for a pendulum is  . this equation finds the period of the pendulum using the length of the string and the constant 2.0042. the constant that our group was able to find was 1.9947, these two constants are extremely close together only being separated by 0.0095. from the theoretical model you can see that the only factors that affect the period of a pendulum is the length of the string and the gravitational constant on the planet or body that the pendulum is on. this means that any other factor such as weight or the release angle are meaningless and will no affect the period, as our graphs show. by reducing our systematic errors as much as possible and by conducting multiple tests to reduce the random error we were able to attain a mathematical model extremely close to that of the theoretical model. compared to other groups who conducted the same experiment we all came very close to the theoretical model and it is impressive at just how close we got. this was a successful experiment and we were able to determine that only the sting length affect the period of the pendulum.