discussion and conclusion

what factors influence the period of a pendulum?

three possible influential factors were investigated in this experiment is  string length, pendulum mass, and angle of release. the results suggest that neither pendulum mass nor angle of release impact the period. the graphs of those factors (figure 2 and figure 3) show significant overlap between the error bars of each data point, which suggests no correlation between the dependent variable (period) and independent variable (angle of release and pendulum mass). increasing the mass and release angle of a pendulum has no impact on its period. the results suggest that string length, on the other hand, is positively correlated with period. none of the error bars overlap on figure 1, and there is a clear strong positive relationship between the two variables. increasing the string length of a pendulum does increase its period. the claims hold in situations where all factors, except for the one being tested, are held constant as the independent variable is varied. 

the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is given by the equation  (from http is //hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/pend.html). the equation that was fit to the data in figure 1 is . plugging 9.81 in for g in the theoretical model and rearranging it gives the equation . this is extremely close to the equation , showing that our data fits extremely well with the theoretical model. angle of release and mass were determined during the experiment to not impact period, and indeed they are not present in the theoretical model.

random errors that could have been present during the experiment are errors in the usage of the stopwatch, not consistently releasing the pendulum at the correct angle, and possibly applying a force to the pendulum when releasing it. stopwatch errors were reduced through the use of a photogate when testing string length, which provided us with extremely accurate data. they could also be reduced by using multiple timers. angle of release errors could be reduced by physically fixing the protractor to the base of the string, which would help ensure consistent measurements. errors in the drop could be reduced by using a machine to drop it. systematic errors that could have been present include not measuring the string at the correct part of the pendulum and the string stretching over time, increasing its length. the incorrect string length error could be solved by adjusting the measurements to the correct length, and the string stretch error could be solved by measuring the string after every trial and adjusting it if need be.

the theoretical model tells us that the force of gravity also has an effect on period. therefore, our results can only be generalized to places with a constant force of gravity that is equal to ours. the theoretical model is also only applicable for small angles of release. therefore, our results can only be generalized to pendulums with sufficiently small angles of release.