discussion and conclusion:

during this experiment, the main purpose was to understand what factors affect the acceleration of a cart on a frictionless track with a light massless string. however, if the massless string was replaced with a heavy string, the acceleration would decrease, because the mass would cause friction in the system.


to test whether adding mass to the hanging weight affected the acceleration, we started with one mass on at the end of the string and placed the rest of the masses on the cart, and after three trials, took a mass off the cart in numerical order and placed it on the end of the string with the other mass. doing this allowed us to keep the mass of the system constant while increasing the mass of the hanging weight. once this portion of the experiment was completed, a conclusion was drawn that as the mass of the hanging weight increases, so does the acceleration of the cart. this conclusion was drawn by looking at the graph we created by using the mass of the hanging weight vs. the average acceleration of each trial. with this, we knew that there was minimal error due to the same error bars. when looking at other group’s models. we found that their models aligned with ours, meaning that every group had a small positive slope and a small negative y-intercept. this y-intercept means that although the track is supposed to be frictionless and on a flat incline, there is still something slowing the cart down while in motion.

when testing whether adding mass to the cart while keep the hanging weight constant affected the acceleration of the cart, we found that doing so caused the acceleration to decrease. when testing this, we did three trials with each mass to get accurate results, and after finding the average acceleration and creating a mass vs. acceleration graph, the equation of the line supported that the more mass on the cart, the slower the acceleration. the line of best fit for this graph was a power curve with a downward slope. this was also supported with other groups because the exponents on their equations were also negative, making the slope of their lines downward.
another experiment our group was assigned to perform was to test whether having the cart travel up an incline would affect the acceleration. to do this, we propped up the front of the track and performed the rest of the experiment like the hanging mass. the graphs of each of these tests proved that as the incline of the track increases, the y-intercept of the graph decreases, meaning that the acceleration decreases as the incline increases. this is because the y-intercept represents the incline of the track and how creating an incline causes the cart to slow down. the results our group obtained, were supported with the other group that performed the same experiment.
our group did not get the opportunity to perform the experiment where the cart was to travel down an incline. however, after looking at the data from groups 5 and 6, it can be determined that having the cart travel down an incline increases the acceleration of the cart. this is because as the height of the decline increases, the acceleration also increases. also, when looking at the models both groups created, the y-intercept of the graph is increasing, making it possible to determine that the cart’s acceleration is also increasing. this is because the y-intercept represents the decline and how a decline allows the cart to have a faster acceleration.
data presented to us from groups 5 and 6 for the cart traveling down a decline.
our group did not perform that experiment where magnets were added to the cart to determine whether that would affect the acceleration, however, we were presented with the data of the experiment from groups 1 and 2. by looking at the data, it is possible to determine that adding magnets to the cart decreases the acceleration. this can be concluded by looking at the y-intercepts of the models and noticing that they become more negative as the number of magnets increase. this is because the y-intercept represents the magnets and how adding magnets causes a magnetic field, which slows down the cart.
data presented to us for the cart traveling with magnets by groups 1 and 2.
in this experiment, the theoretical equation to find force is $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$ where a is acceleration, f is force, and m_{sys} is mass of the system. however, the equations of our lines are in the form of $a=c1 w+c2$. in this equation, c1 is the constant of acceleration, w is the mass, and c2 is what is slowing down or speeding up the cart. after looking deeper into the equations, it can be determined that the correct theoretical equation in this situation would be $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$. this equation is supported throughout the experiment because there is a force and a mass accelerating the cart in the positive direction, however, there is also a force and mass slowing down cart, making the acceleration less than what it should be. these extra forces were accounted for in the second day of experiments when the tracks were put on an incline or decline or when friction was added to the track through magnets. overall, the experimental models are related to newton’s law (). these show that as mass and acceleration increase, so will the force.
random errors in this lab include where to start and end the line to gather the information for the slope of the graph and having the hanging weight swinging when the frictionless track is turned on and the cart released. in order to determine the line of best fit for the graph, we had to select which data points we wanted to use. doing this, could cause random error because we could have missed important information that would change the look of our graph. the hanging weight swinging happened to our group, and we noticed a change in our values whenever we were made sure the hanging wait was still or barely moving. the way to reduce this is to be careful and check every time before starting the next trial. this is a random error because the acceleration either increased or decreased. there are no outstanding systematic errors in this experiment due to the accurate measuring devices used throughout. the triple beam balance had an uncertainty of 0.05g, and the sensor that determined the acceleration had an uncertainty of 0.001, making our measurement accurate.
one major constraint in this experiment was to keep the mass of the system constant during the hanging mass trials. to do this, we had to make sure all the bobbers were a part of each trial every time whether that meant the bobbers were a part of the hanging weight or attached to the cart. without this, the acceleration changes more dramatically each time and not at a constant rate because not all the mass is a part of the experiment each time. this explains why the hanging mass and adding mass experiment had different types of graphs.