conclusion

the purpose of this lab was to develop mathematical models to describe the a real system in the physical world. additionally, the goal was to understand how the numerical values of the models correlated to theoretical values such as mass, force, and acceleration.
for lab 5, the acceleration was measured when the distribution of mass in the system changed. for the first experiment, the impact of the force of gravity caused by hanging mass was measured, and for the second the force of friction caused by mass on the car was measured. the resulting linear equations described the relationship between acceleration and force. the total mass of the system was kept constant, but the magnitude of the gravitational and frictional forces were changed by altering the distribution of mass.
for experiment 1, the equation $y=0.0023$ was measured. in this case, y is acceleration in m/s^2 and x was force of hanging mass due to gravity in n. so, $a = 0.0023 f$. since $f = m a$, .0023 must be equal to 1 / m.
for experiment 2, the equation $y = -0.0013 x + 0.6872$ was measured. this time, the x value was the mass on the car and y was still acceleration. so, $a = -0.0013 m+0.6872$.
for lab 6, we measured how the coefficient of friction impacted the acceleration of the car. the coefficient of friction between car and track was changed by adding or removing magnets on the side of the car. three sets of data were obtained for different amounts of friction. within margin of error, it was found that the slope of the acceleration vs. mass line was constant, while the y-intercept changed. this means that altering the coefficient of friction does not alter the relationship between mass and acceleration, but it does cause a total increase or decrease in acceleration.
error could have been caused by any number of things in this lab. small variations in weight distribution, air resistance, and gravitational force could all have caused random error in our data. however, since our r-squared values were very high, we have a reasonably high degree of confidence in our equations. 
one source of error that could have been reduced was air resistance. we could have been more careful to keep the exact arrangement of weight as even as possible from one trial to another.
one constraint on this experiment was that we could not alter the gravitational constant, since we were stuck on earth without the necessary equipment to simulate different levels of gravity. as such, our results only apply to standard gravity on earth.
both our models are consistent with newton’s second law, in that there is a linear relationship between force and acceleration as long as mass is kept constant.