discussion and conclusion

research question: what variables affected the period of a pendulum?



the first experiment had the independent variable as the mass of the pendulum measured in grams and the dependent variable as time measured in seconds. the prediction was that the heavier the weight, the larger the period but this was not what happened. when we tested the experiment, we found the results to be inconsistent. as the weight increased, the time increased and decreased with it. once this was plotted on a graph, it was clear to see that there was no correlation because the slope of the graph changed from positive to negative several times. also, the error bars showed that the values may not have changed at all because they overlapped each other. this showed that the mass didn’t impact the period of the pendulum and proved our prediction wrong. 



the second experiment had the independent variable as the angle we released the pendulum at in degrees and the dependent variable as the time measured in seconds. our prediction was that the bigger the angle, the longer the period. when the experiment was tested, we noticed a trend in the dependent variable numbers which gradually went up as the angle increased. once the data was plotted, there was a clear positive correlation in the data. however, in class we found that anytime the angle was less than 25 degrees, there was no impact on the period. our data did not show this due to random error, but the values could be adjusted on the error bars to fix this. overall, the angle we released the pendulum at did impact the period once the angle was greater than 25 degrees which proved our prediction to be correct.



the third experiment had the independent variable as the string length in centimeters and the dependent variable as time measured in seconds. our prediction was the longer the string length, the longer the period of the pendulum. once the data was collected and plotted on a graph, there was a clear positive correlation that appeared to be the most consistent between the three experiments. this experiment was repeated with the photogate sensor which eliminated most of the random error on the timing aspect, so we were able to obtain more accurate results. once this data was plotted, there was a noticeable power-curve trend. our original data that was collected using the stopwatches could show that the values were adjusted on the error bars which barely overlapped with each other. in conclusion, our prediction was correct. 



when we had the opportunity to test the experiment with a photogate sensor, we were able to obtain very accurate results that were so accurate we couldn’t see the error bars. excel calculated the formula of the curve that was made and obtained $t=20829 x^{0.4316}$. the theoretical formula for the period of a pendulum is    $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$    when calculated out gave us  $t=2.01 l^{0.5}$    which was comparable to our formula. through the graph, an r squared-value was obtained at a value of 0.9975. the r squared value is near the value of 1, which indicates that the excel formulated equation is a nearly perfect fit to the trendline that passes through our observed data points. this means that the period of a pendulum is almost identical to a power-curve-relationship. 
from the previous labs, it was observed that the independent variables (the mass of pendulum) doesn’t affect the dependent variable (time). the reason for this is because the best fit line only runs through two out of the five points and there is no correlation between the points. also, the data obtained when observing the relationship between the angle at which the pendulum was released, and the time don’t affect the period of the pendulum. this is because the error bars of the graph measuring the angle and the time overlap each other. this means that the true value is within that range and the data point could be the same. also, the theoretical equation doesn’t include anything about angles or masses. therefore, we can eliminate these from the new experiment.
one-way experimental error could be reduced if we had several people use stopwatches instead of just two people using the stopwatches. this was fixed when we used a photogate which eliminated the human error when clicking the stop watch. a couple more errors include the human error of raising the pendulum at the needed degree to be released from and testing each experiment at least ten times to get an expanded range to average the results from. one last error could’ve been reduced if we measured the length of the string every time we changed the mass. during the final experiment, this was done in between every trial. 
one constraint that limited our results was that the string holding apparatus only went up to a certain height. if it was higher, then we could have had a much longer string length that could’ve produced a wider range of results. another constraint is that we were also only limited to a certain amount of mass. even though the mass is said to not have an impact on the period, this could’ve been proved further if we could’ve put more mass on the pendulum.