discussion and conclusion

the original research question was, “what impacts the period of a pendulum?”. after working to develop the hypothesis that the string length was the true independent variable when comparing it to the effects that mass and angle of release had on the period, we further examined the effect that string length had on the period for the pendulum in lab 003. thus, the research question became “is the period of the pendulum affected by the length of the string?”. this was investigated by holding both the angle of release and the mass constant, as well as using an improved timing system - the photogate - to attempt to eliminate random error. 

in lab 001, the three variables is  length of string, mass attached to pendulum, and angle of release were all measured, as can be observed in table 1. one at a time, each variable was treated as an independent variable while the other two remained constant, and the period was recorded with each trial. in lab 002, improved measurement systems were provided, in order to assist in developing a hypothesis of which variable showed a true effect on the period of the pendulum. in lab 003, after determining the length of string to be the independent variable, the experiment was focused solely on string length. the variables of mass and release angle were held constant, and a photogate was used to improve timing accuracy - the results shown in table 3 support our claim that the length of the string affects the period of the pendulum, in a direct relationship.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is 

($y = 1.99x^{0.5}$). using data from table 3, our results yielded 

($y = 2.039 x^{0.4269}$). while our mathematical model wasn’t incredibly different from the theoretical, it definitely assists in proving that there is error in our experiment from which we derived the equation. while only the length of the string is observed here, the role of mass and release angle may still have both contributed to the results found in our experiment, and may play a part in the discrepancy between our mathematical model and the theoretical.

during lab 001-002, the recorded timing relied on a handheld stopwatch. this gave room for random error, as the data could have been higher or lower than the actual value, depending upon the person’s reaction time as well as the functionality of the stopwatch. improved equipment was provided, allowing for more precise measurements. the photogate, which we use to record the time of the period has an uncertainty of .001, which is a consistent value. the use of the photogate as opposed to a stopwatch helped to eliminate time discrepancy from the reaction time of the person pressing the stopwatch. any error that occurred with the photograte can be attributed to systematic error. to avoid random error, we made sure to have the same person measuring the same things each time that the trial was performed, and tried to make the measurements as precise as possible. still, random and systematic error could have been present in the measurement of the release angle, string length, and mass. to better avoid random error in the future, more precise equipment could be used to measure such variables (giving less room for operational error), and to eliminate systematic error, measuring equipment could be examined for accuracy.

there were a few constraints in this experiment that may have limited our ability to generalize our results to “the period of all pendulums”. one constraint was the measurement accuracies - we could not eliminate all error. another constraint would be how limited our experiment was. we performed the trials in one location, at one time, with the exact same equipment throughout. in actuality, our results may have been slightly different had we altered slight variables - maybe the material which the variables were constructed with, the methods by which they were measured, or any extraneous factors that may play a part in our results.