conclusion:
 what impacts the period of a pendulum?

  the three independent variables that were tested against the dependent variable of the period of the pendulum were the length of the string, the angle of release, and the weight of the object.  we predicted that the length of the string would be directly proportional to the time it would take to complete a period under the constant conditions of a 0.05-kilogram weight being dropped at 20-degrees.  this was proven to be true because in both the photogate graph and the hand timed graph there were no error bars that overlapped.  therefore, this showed that the length of the string did impact the period of a pendulum.  additionally, we predicted that the weight of an object would be inversely proportional to how long it took a pendulum to travel a period under the constant conditions of length being 0.15-meters and the angle of release of 20- degrees.  this was proven not to be true because the graph of weight versus time showed that multiple error bars overlapped one another.  as result, this showed that the weight of the object did not affect the period of the pendulum.  lastly, we predicted that the angle of release would be directly proportional to the time it would take for the pendulum to complete a period under the constant conditions of a 0.15-kilogram weight attached to a 0.02-meters-long string.  although, this was not true because based on the angle versus time graph the error bars overlapped one another therefore proving that the angle of release did not affect the period of the pendulum.

   the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$  therefore, the independent variables that can be eliminated from the mathematical model are angle of release and mass.  they are both not apart of the pendulum equation and the graphs of both the angle of release versus time and mass versus time have overlapping 2 sigma error bars.  so, we can conclude from the angle vs time and weight vs time graphs that the 2 sigma error bars overlap each other.  as a result, each data point cannot be considered independent, because the range of possible data is the same or very similar for each data point.  additionally, the length of string should be 6.208-meters for the period to be 5 seconds while our mathematical model suggests the length to be 10.53-meters.  we found that to match the mathematical model to the theoretical model, the coefficient would need to be .605*m and 10.53*.605 so 6.3. 

   the random errors in this experiment were, the inconsistent starting and stopping of the timer, the angle of release not being precisely measured, and the pendulum being released at a side angle.  these random errors could have been resolved with a stand that marked the same release point and would be released at the same angle every time.  the inconsistent timing could be resolved with a photogate which was used to solve that problem in lab 03.  the systematic errors were the protractor being off center, weights not being what they were labeled, and measuring the value to low or too high for the length of the string.  these errors could have been resolved if there was a clamp to hold the protractor securely in place, a scale to weigh the weights, and a magnifying glass to measure the length of the string 

 all these claims though are only valid under the constraints that our angles of release were all less than 30-degrees, our weight was under 0.25-kilograms, and our length of string was under 0.15-meters.  therefore, in order to say that the angle of release does not impact the period of pendulum you specifically have to say for angles less than 30-degrees because angles higher were not tested and could potentially affect the period of a pendulum.