conclusion:

here are all our graphs made in excel. the graphs have the error bar shown so it can clearly be seen where our margin of error was. some of the error bars are very small but they are all included in the above graphs. 

these are the graphs for lab 03. we only did the two because we had already concluded weight had no effect on the period. here we can see the error bars shown again. the error bars show the uncertainty within the measurements. they allow us to see how much off the measurement taken could be, either positive or negative. as seen with the angle trial the results are very consistent, meaning if there is error it was systematic error, and the margin of error is very small. the error bars in the length graph are very small and can be hard to see. 

research question is 
the purpose of these labs and the experiments conducted was to answer the question “what variables have a direct effect on the period of a pendulum?”. 
	based on our data collected with mass as the individual variable, we were able to conclude that mass did not have a direct effect on the period. this is because although the data was showing a constant increase, all of the data points fell within the same error bars, leaving us unable to conclude that it actually had an effect on the period. this can be seen in the mass graph shown above. 
	length was our only independent variable shown to have a direct effect on the period. as seen in the graph above, a power curve can be drawn, clearly showing an increase in the data collected. the error bars in the graph also do not overlap, allowing us to come to this conclusion. 
	the angle of release was our final experiment conducted. this too showed us that it did not have any direct effect on the period. this is because the data points are in a horizontal line, with all error bars overlapping. this can be seen in the graph above and shows us that there was no direct effect on the period. 

	$t=\frac{2 \pi sqrtm}{k}$ – the equation to find the time of a period of a pendulum. 

	$t=0.9544445 l$      - the mathematical equation we made in lab. 
this mathematical equation works to show the period of the pendulum when length is the individual variable. this is because this is a power function, which is what our graph of the length data showed us. in the graph the trendline added in to best fit the curve was a power curve, ultimately giving us this equation. 
	when humans are conducting an experiment there is always the possibility of random error. through our experiment there was random error in our timing when we used the stop watch. there was also random error in our measurements when we used the tape measure to measure out the length of the string. the other occurrence of random error happened when we used to protractor to measure the angle of release. all these errors can be reduced by using better equipment. if we had a better tape measure of a better way of measuring the string, that would greatly reduce error. if we had a better protractor or a more efficient way of measuring the angle, then that would help reduce error as well. the most error came from the timing using the stop watches. this error was reduced when we used the photogate to time the period. there was some systematic error as well. even after using the photogate we still had error, meaning the photogate was not 100% accurate. it was consistent however, meaning this was a systematic error. 
	there were many restraints on the experiment. we were only given so much string, only had so much weight, and were told to not go above an angle of release of 30 degrees. all these constraints generalize the experiment. if we have a broader range of data, we will be able to do more trials and would have more data to base our conclusions off. this generalization can be seen with the work of the other groups in the lab. we were asked to look at other group’s equations, and then everyone shared their equations. all the groups had similar equations because everyone had similar data. the only reason the equations were different is because of different trials conducted and error.