Discussion and Conclusion
The goal of these two labs was to develop mathematical models to prove Newtons Second Law, $F=M A$ by performing tests (Lab 5) in a real-world environment to find out how the relationships play out in practical tests. With these tests being done, it was then time to further prove those relationships by performing more tests (Lab 6) and comparing the results to other groups to solidify our findings.

    The first part of lab 5 lead to the mathematical model of $Y=0.0257 x - 0.00094$ which graphed as a linear relationship in Figure 2 and this was very evident in the physical aspect of the experiment. This means in a system where the mass stays the same, the more mass on the string will make the lighter cart accelerate faster in a linear fashion. The second part of lab 5 lead to the mathematical model of $Y=0.7 x - 2.938 + 3 e$ which graphed in Figure 1 as a concave down power function meaning the cart would have to slow down as more weight was added to the cart . This was the case in the physical experiment when the cart got exponentially slower as more weight was added to the cart when keeping the mass on the end of the string the same.
    
The results of these groups helped solidify our own data we found. This data supported our own data that showed positive, parallel slopes across all the data. The equations from Group 4? were almost the same as the data we found in our investigation. The data from Group 2? was also similar but had a much steeper slope. This data helps show that there is a linear relationship between the angle of the tilt and the acceleration of the cart. 

           Random Errors in this experiment include the draft of the room, the vacuum being used would occasionally act up and make funny sounds, which may have signified inconsistencies in air flow. Systematic errors in the lab include friction between the pulley and its mount, air resistance, and the lack of air pressure at heavier weights. To eliminate the random errors, the experiment could be conducted in a closed system. For the systematic errors, the friction of the pulley could be reduced to as low as possible, the air pressure could be increased in proportion to the amount of weight on the cart to make sure the amount of force acting up on the cart is constant over all the trials. Other things to make the experiment better would be to take into account the mass of the string and to spread out the weight on the cart so it is not centered on one area.

           The main constraints of the experiment were the lack of a constant force on the cart. Without a constant force provided by the air, the cart was encountering the metal rail leading to the introduction of a large amount of friction into the system that was not present during the earlier trials of the experiment. This would severely skew the data by providing an outlier that would pull the equation of the fit line away from the actual data.  Another constraint was the lack of available weights and the ability to evenly distribute them over the cart. With more smaller weights and the ability to evenly distribute them, the data could have formed a better, more accurate curve that would have provided a more accurate equation for the data. 

           The equation from Figure 2 works with $F=M A$ because the amount of mass in the system stays constant, so the acceleration would need to be constant to maintain the equation. This led to the graph in Figure 2 having a constant slope. The equation for Figure 1 works with $F=M A$ because as the mass of the cart increases and the mass at the end of the string stays constant, the force will stay constant meaning the acceleration in the system will have to decrease to work with $F=M A$.
