Conclusion

In this lab we conducted research to identify what variables would cause a measurable effect on the time period of a pendulum. For our first subcomponent of this experiment we tested multiple variations of string lengths, in ascending order. By doing this we were able to see that there was a relationship between the two variables. As the length of the string we can see that there is a consistent linear increase in the time. There is one exception where we have one point that is considerably lower than the rest and this could be contributed to some kind of error. For this subcomponent the error that could have caused an outlier here, and in general, would be a misreading of the data which would be considered a random error and it could have been eliminated through taking more data points as we saw in taking 10 points were still able to see the linear relationship. There could also be some error in making the measurements which would be random as well since they can be made above or below based on who measured the string and the smallest measurements that are on the tape measure itself. 
In our second subcomponent we conducted tests to see what, if any, relationship there was to the angle of release and the time of the period. In our data were able to see that there doesn’t appear to be any relationship between the angle and the time. However, there is an outlier in this data which makes it look there is a change, and this can most likely be attributed to error. The error in this experiment would come from the offset measurement that was taken for the time on the stopwatches where they would not be stopped consistently when the period stopped. This error would considered random error because there would be values measured below and above the actual value and this means that they could be limited if more data points were taken which was something we did not account for at this point which is why there are only three test data points. If we had taken the extra point the graph and data would have avoided this constraint on our data and better represent the conclusion we had drawn, where the time and the angle of release have none to little correlation to each other. 
Our third and final subcomponent that we ran tests for was to see the relationship that mass played when looking at the results for the time. For this relationship we saw a similar one to our second set of tests in both time and in the outlier as well. The similarities in the times recorded can to attributed to how the length of the string remained constant at 40 cm throughout the last two subcomponents which would have cause the time to remain the same. This conclusion can be drawn because when looking at all the data we see that the length of the string is the only thing that has caused a change in the time over all three of the sets of data. We oncec again have an outlier in this set of data and the conclusion was drawn that it can be attributed and resolved in the same way as we did for the angle of release experiment. The major constraint on this set of tests would again be the limited amount of values that we tested. Had we accounted for this the data would more closely match the conclusion that the mass has no affect on the period of the pendulum.
When looking at how our measured data when changing the length of the string and how it compared to the actual value using the formula to calculate the period our data very closely resembled where they should have been to the point where the measured values we within about a tenth of a second of the calculated value. The only exception to this is the one outlier that we identified earlier and would be expected to have a value that was further off.
