discussion and conclusion

when asked, “what effects the swing of the pendulum?” one may say the string length, the weight of the pendulum, or the angle of release would have an effect, but after thorough research, the results prove otherwise. for the experiment, three hypotheses were drafted and tested. the first hypothesis states the pendulum’s period should not be affected by the mass of the pendulum. in reference to figure 1.1, this hypothesis proves true. as seen in figure 1.1, the slope line is not perfectly flat as it should be. this can be attributed to the errors discussed under figure 1.1. error bars are included in this graph to demonstrate how each data point collected could vary from the stated value. when observing the error bars for figure 1.1, it should be noted that the error bars are quite large and line up with each other consistently. in conclusion, the hypothesis stated holds true given the experiment’s constraints are followed. 

	the second hypothesis states that if the length of the pendulum is shorter, then the period length will be shorter. when looking at figure 1.2, this is true. error bars were added to ensure the results are effectively marked. it must be noted that the error bars seen on this figure are small, due to the angle of release method being improved. 

the third hypothesis states that if the angle of release is shorter, the period of the pendulum should be shorter. this hypothesis proved true, to an extent, based on the experiment conducted on day two of the lab according to figure 1.3, the graph matched the expected values, with a period taking longer to complete as the angle of release increased. it must be noted the error bars in this graph are shown to be quite large, due in part to the amount of physical movement required to set up the pendulum for this test.

	furthermore, it is of significant importance to discuss figure 2.1. on the third day of lab, it was discovered that the only other factor that may affect period length, the angle of release, had no effect when the angle of release was any value less than twenty degrees. for figure 2.1, the angle of release was held to this standard, ensuring the only variable effecting the period was the pendulum length. figure 2.1 yields the most accurate results of the experiment, proving an exponential relationship between string length and period. 

using figure 2.1, a mathematical equation was developed to show the relationship between pendulum length and period. the equation is defined as $y=2 x^{0.517}$ where x represents the string length and y represents the period. while the theoretical model predicted an increase in period as string length increased it did not predict an exponential relationship. the exponential relationship, as described in the mathematical model, is best explained by the effect of gravity on the pendulum. the theoretical model did not account for the gravitational force exerted on the pendulum. it must be stated that error bars are present on figure 2.1, but due to the accuracy of the experiment, the error bars are not present.

through the course of the experiment, several errors presented themselves. the most persistent error proved to be reaction time with stopwatches. two experimenters would be in charge of time keeping, and the average of the times would be recorded. due to reaction times, the results may be offset from the reality of the experiment. this issue could be and was resolved by switching from handheld timers to an automated infrared time recorder. in further discussion, a systematic error that could arise from the experiment is the accuracy of the stopwatches themselves, which were on accurate to the 100th of a second. this could be fixed, and was, by using an infrared timer that recorded time to the 1000th of a second. further, the method of releasing at various angles could prove difficult to maintain accuracy. this was a result from a single person attempting to reach the right angle and release, which proved to be difficult. to adjust and eliminate this error. a second experimenter would help hold the protractor while the desired angle was reached. another source of systematic error was air flow. while miniscule and possibly unnoticed, any change in air flow, such as air conditioning, the opening of a door, etc, could affect the period, and would be outside the controllable factors given the lab setup. further, another error proved to be loose bolts in the pole and bar supporting the pendulum, which could move around.

lastly, certain constraints must be implanted for the globalization and reproduction of this experiment. for instance, the weight, while it is stated to have no effect on the period, should still be held constant throughout. secondly, the angle of release must be under 20 degrees. third, a automatic timer, such as the infrared sensor should be utilized.