discussion and conclusion 

in lab 5 we found that altering both the applied force and the mass of the cart impact the acceleration of the system. when increasing the applied force, we can see that the acceleration of the system is increasing as well. this is because the total mass of the system is the same, we’re just changing where it is distributed and when more bobbers are added to the hanging mass, this would allow the cart to accelerate faster when the air was turned on. our mathematical model of $a=3.0715$ is a positive linear equation which supports the claim. but when adding to the mass of the cart we can see how this causes a decrease in the acceleration of the system. this occurs because when the cart is becoming heavier than the hanging mass, it will cause a lot more force on the cart. therefore, the cart will accelerate slower due to the extra force that has to be put on the cart for the cart to move forward. our mathematical model of $a=0.593$ is a negative power equation which supports the claim. 
in lab 6 the data we gathered from the experiment supports our claim that by increasing the incline of the track does impact the acceleration of the cart. through our three experiments the c1’s stayed nearly the same between tests and the c2 was what really changed. our r2 values were 0.9999, 0.9997, and 0.9999, meaning that our collected data was almost what the theoretical equation would give us. since the c1’s were all very similar it means that the slope of acceleration vs force applied stays constant, but the change of the c2 value means that as you increase the distance the cart must travel on the y axis longer, increasing the y intercept of the formula, but as a result acceleration is increasing downward.
the data that we observed from other groups supports the claim that by increasing the incline of the track, it results in a change of acceleration. in both groups data the c1’s stays relatively constant throughout the three experiments with their c2 changing like ours did as elevation was increased. 
for lab 5 there would be no other factors to this experiment that could be tested because we ran all the tests where we could control the dependent variables, being mass and the applied force. we couldn’t run another to prove newton’s law because acceleration is an independent variable and we don’t have the option to control it as a result. there is nothing left to suggest changing for this lab as the data was accurate as humanly possible to record from this lab. 
as for lab 6 their c2 between the quarter inch incline and their half inch incline isn’t as large as what we saw for our group but that could be a result of calculation error and the actual change of incline between tests. to fix this in the future to avoid such differences a better way of elevating the track is necessary because using small metal tiles is not accurate enough measurements for the small quantities we’re recording.
when connecting our results in lab 5 to newton’s second law we can conclude that the hypothetical scenario would give us a correlational relationship between force and acceleration if mass is kept constant. this could be seen if force is increased and mass was kept constant, acceleration would increase linearly, and as a result the relationship of net force and acceleration would be the correlation of the equations variables ($f=m a$). 
if we were to do the same for lab 6 and compare our data to newton’s second law we see that c1 from our model is the slope of the graph but in terms of newton’s second law this would be the applied force of the hanging mass. for each of our different set up we see that the c1 value we get is relatively close to 0.3 which when comparing this to our original mathematical model that has a c1 0f 0.29329. from this we can reasonably say that the values are the same and may only be slightly different due to human error. in addition, if we try to compare our values for c2 to our model which was -0.0057 we can determine that c2, being our y intercept, is different in every one of experimental trials. so, from this we can argue that since our mass is controlled, and the acceleration is similar in each case that the total force of the system is the same as what we’d get in our model. the only reason our c2 values differ is because for our trials we changed the height the height of our system each time and as a result that c2 value being our y intercept will be different. even though c2 was different in each experiment it doesn’t disprove our claim because this y intercept is not a dependent variable in newton’s second law ($f=m a$) and therefore doesn’t dispute our claim. since we’ve ran every possible test possible with the resources, we were given there would be no other tests we could run for this experiment. this would be because the only other factor we could test would be changing the position of the x direction but it’s not possible to do so. if we were to improve the experiment in a better way to gain even more accurate data, it would be to have better hanging masses that are one object rather than several bobbers. this would be just to have all the mass of the hanging force to be truly central to one object and thus give us slightly more accurate data.