discussion & conclusion:

the research question of, “what impacts the period of a pendulum?” was investigated throughout the three experiments ran. before running our experiments, we had to create a list of possible factors that could impact the period of a pendulum, then select three we wanted to investigate. running experiments on angle of release, string length, and mass of the pendulum addressed the research question because these factors are the main components that allow a pendulum to swing. the claims initially made were that string length and the period of a pendulum would have an inverse relationship. it was also claimed that the angle of release and mass of the pendulum would not affect the period. these claims are valid under the conditions that the control variables are kept constant.

graphs 1 & 2 contain data investigating the trend between the mass of a pendulum and the period of the pendulum and graph 2 contains error bars that are large. table 2 contains the standard deviation in the third column and is a value of 0.421637, showing that the data obtained are relatively similar in numerical value. there is also not an obvious visual relationship between these variables shown on the two graphs. this evidence helps to support our claim.

for experiment two, the graphs 3 & 4 also contain large error bars. table 4 contains the standard deviation of this experiment which is 0.459468, also showing the data is similar in numerical value. the graphs show that there is not an obvious trend between the angle of release and the period of the pendulum, also supporting our claim.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is represented by the equation is  $y=1.99 x^{0.5}$. the coefficient in the theoretical model was 1.99. graphs 1-6 show coefficients that are in the decimals or around 50, which is very distant from the theoretical value. in addition, the errors bars on graphs 2,4, & 6 are large. tables 2 & 4 show their standard deviation values and these values are relatively smaller in number, meaning that the data obtained are closer in value. this is evidence as to why the data obtained from experiment one and two do not fit the theoretical model. in comparison, as you can see from the equation given on graph 7 from our experiment investigating string length vs. the period of the pendulum, the coefficient in our model was 2.06. the error bars on this graph are too small to be seen, and the r^2 of graph 7 was equal to 0.9954, which is very close to 1. graphs 5 & 6 had a very different coefficient compared to graph 7, because they were measuring the amount of periods in a specific time span, not the elapsed time for one period. table 6 has a standard deviation of 1.870829, which is much greater than the standard deviations of tables 2 & 4, meaning there is a greater difference in numerical value for each data obtained. it is also obvious that graphs 5 & 6 show that there is a visual trend between string length and the period of a pendulum, whereas graphs 1-4 investigating angle of release and the mass of the pendulum, do not.

in conclusion, with the combined data of graph 7 and table 6 of experiment three show to have a close coefficient to the theoretical value, a large standard deviation, and a small r^2 value, it is safe to say that our actual mathematical model fits the theoretical model. this evidence also allows us to support our claim that there is an inverse relationship between string length and the period of a pendulum, and that the angle of release and the mass of a pendulum have little to no effect on the period of a pendulum.

one main error that greatly affected the accuracy of our data was the random and systematic error of the stopwatch. the stopwatch could have had an uncertainty large enough that it would affect the accuracy of our data, which contributes to random error. also, since the pressing of the stopwatch may add or take away time from the amount of periods completed in a 20 second time span, it would affect the time elapsed per period if calculated, contributing to systematic error. the use of a photogate eliminated a lot of that error because it was able to measure the time elapsed per period. this allowed our data to be more precise and accurate because the photogate was measuring the time elapsed per period, rather than taking the average of each period when using a stopwatch.

some constraints that may still limit the generalizability of our results is that there is still error present in our experiments, and human error is likely what contributes to this. it is safe to draw conclusions from our experiments since the results of experiment three correlates so closely to theoretical mathematical model, but there is still that lingering uncertainty.