conclusion and discussion

research question: what is period of the pendulum affected by? 

in experiment 1 and 2, the factor that largely impacted the period of the pendulum was the length of the string. this was concluded by observing the error bars in figures 1-3. the error bars in figure 2 all overlap which would lead to the conclusion that the mass of the pendulum does not affect the period of the pendulum. this conclusion may also go for figure 3 because there is still quite a significant amount of overlapping error bars but not as much as the data for figure 2. however, the data for figure 1 shows that the length of the string had a significant impact on the period of the pendulum therefore, the length of the pendulum and the period of the pendulum have a dependence relationship. to back up the claim that the period of the pendulum is largely impacted by the length of the string, experiment 3 was conducted to acquire more data but this time the data was more precise because of the use of the photogate.  

the theoretical mathematical model is $t=\frac{2 \pi l}{g}$. the equation for the trendline in figure 4 is $y=0.2595 x^{0.45}$ and this trendline goes through the center of almost every point meaning this trendline is the line of best fit for the graph. the mathematical model is $t = 0.2595 l^{0.4509}$ where t is the period of the pendulum and l is the length. the difference between theoretical model and the experimental mathematical model is that the experimental model is a power law function whereas the theoretical function is a root function. 

there were a few random and systematic errors present throughout the three experiments. an example of a random error found in this experiment was the error of having fluctuating timed periods. this was due to the stopwatches either stopping late, starting late, stopping early, or starting early before the pendulum has been officially released. this error is due to human error and since this was a “two-sided” error, the error was reduced by taking the average of three stopwatches for each period calculated.

the longest length of the pendulum’s string was approximately 200 cm therefore the mathematical model is only generalizable to 200cm for the length of the pendulum. in addition, the lightest and heaviest weights given was 250 g and 50 g which limited the results for how heavy and how light the mass of the pendulum could be when determining whether the mass of the pendulum impacted its period.