discussion and conclusion.

the question at the base of this lab was “what impacts the period of a pendulum.” 

these three experiments investigated how three separate variables affected the period of a pendulum. we found that there was a positive correlation between period of the swing and length of the pendulum as well as start angle. this can be seen in figures 1 & 3 as period gets larger as the independent variable increases. for the relationship between length and period to be considered valid, the mass and start angle must be held constant. this relationship was further investigated, resulting in figure 4. from this graph we can determine a power relationship between length and period to the degree of approximately .5. this is a fairly certain value as measurement uncertainty was minimized using a photogate and the r^2 value of the graph was very high at .9995. for the relationship between start angle and period to be considered valid, the mass and length must be held constant. this relationship was later found to be uncorrelated after reviewing with more data points in the class.we found no correlation between mass of the pendulum and period length though. this can be seen above in figure 2 as the period does not change while mass increases.

the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. the data in table 5 (exploring length vs period) almost exactly reflects this model, giving an equation of $t=1.98 l^{0.515}$. this power relationship is illustrated in figure four above. given this model our results, besides the initial false correlation between start angle and period, make sense. mass of the pendulum and start angle have no effect on any variable in this equation. this means they can’t affect the period which is what was observed. 

i don’t believe there was any systematic error in our data. this can only be checked for length vs period as it is the only one that can be compared to other results, and all data found correlates very closely with what was expected. in the three initial experiments there was a large amount of random error due to human error during the use of the stopwatch as a timer.  this error was eliminated in the secondary experiment using a photogate to measure the period length to an accuracy of .001 seconds.

this results from this experiment are applicable in real life but have constraints due to the scope of the experiment. these results can only apply to these three factors as they were the only ones measured. also, this study only applies to the period of the pendulum under earth’s normal gravity as those are the conditions of the experiment. this experiment was also very limited on time and resources, so while some accurate results were achieved, inaccurate ones (like the correlation between start angle and period) were as well due to small sample sizes. we saw the more accurate results achieved when better technology and more time was spent on individual variables in the second experiment.