discussion and conclusion:

in this lab we researched the question what factors affect the period of the pendulum. in the first lab we tested three different independent variables, measuring the period of the pendulum with each. we then created tables and graphs with them, and then tried to summarize what our findings meant. we said that the graphs of length and angle of a pendulum 1.1 and 1.3 have a positive correlation with the period, and the graph of mass and period 1.2 has a negative correlation. in lab 2 we learned more about what makes data significant, as well as what a systematic and random error are. learning this information in experiment 2, we were able to ultimately rule out mass completely as a factor in changing the period of the pendulum and note the angle, as long as it’s below about 20 degrees doesn’t change the period much, either. in experiment 3 we used a photogate sensor to decrease the amount of random error from my group members and i clicking the stopwatch too fast or too slow, in hopes to gain more accurate measurements. we only tested how length affects the period of a pendulum, and the graph 3.1 has a very positive correlation.



the theoretical math model for the period of the pendulum is 2 pi times the square root of the length divided by gravity. it makes sense that length is the only one of our variables that ended up having an affect on the period is length by this equation. pi is a constant and gravity is dependent on the planet you’re on, and since we only conducted experiments on earth, length is the only variable that affects the period. you can see that the strongest correlation in the graphs are graphs 1.1 and 3.1 hich are both the length vs. period graphs.



some errors that exist in these experiments are due to either the machinery used, or human error. a systematic error may have occurred if the photogate wasn’t properly set up, causing all of the numbers in our set to be skewed higher or lower than their true value. another possibility is that there was a systematic error in our measuring of the length, if the person who was measuring had a bias to round up or down. in the first experiment however, there are random errors for both time and the length and angles recorded, as all of us took turns, and so the biases are mixed, causing a completely random error pattern. in the future, only one person should measure a certain data type so that the error is more likely to be systematic, and all equipment should be properly calibrated.

since this experiment was on a very small, constrained scale, i wouldn’t use our specific results universally, but overall the concept that length affects the period with a positive correlation is universal and can be generalized to any pendulum situation.