discussion and conclusion

the purpose of the lab is to describe real world behavior using developed mathematical models. in addition, also gain an understanding of the variables and the numerical values associated with each. 

the mathematical models are a direct result of the graphed data in that the model is the calculated line of best fit. the r2 values show how closely the model equation matches the data such as in figure 3, the values for the three lines are 0.9996 and above. to find these models, the data had to be first graphed correctly with the proper mass on the x-axis and the acceleration on the y-axis. the three experiments were designed in a way to measure the effect between these variables. given the template of $a = c1 f + c2$, the physical meaning of each constant of the models can be found through dimensional analysis. for one side of the equation to equal acceleration, so to must the other side. thus, c2 has units of acceleration and c1 has units of kg-1.
the first group whose results are on the left photo (they did not write what team they were) were testing the same properties in lab 6 as my group. they found from their three equations that what separated the models of different tilts was the y-intercept, just like our group. thus, i can say with reasonable confidence that c2 value represents the tilt of the experiment. team 2, in the photo on the right, were testing a different variable in lab 6, the effect of added friction on the system. they did not write down their models or data so the influence from friction cannot be confirmed. however, they stated that the amount of friction applied was related to the slope of the equations and thus friction would represent the c2 value. 

some errors that may have been present include friction, the wheel measuring velocity, and the bobbers. these possible sources of error are systemic, both, and random respectively. for friction, it was greatly reduced due to the air distribution system, but it was not completely negated. this would have slowed down the velocity and decrease the value of acceleration of the system. a possible solution would be to use magnets to assist keeping the cart from having much contact with the ramp. for the wheel measuring velocity, it is both random and systemic in that there is an uncertainty associated with and that it had to be calibrated respectively. to reduce the impact of the uncertainty, we tested each mass five times and used the average. as for calibration, if the wheel had not been or calibrated incorrectly, then the acceleration would be consistently too much in one direction. a recalibration before the lab starts should solve this issue. last, for bobbers, their mass was measured all at once and divided by the number of bobbers. if the bobbers had different masses, this would have been hidden. the result could have been too high or too low a falling mass and influence the acceleration accordingly. this error could be removed by replacing them with calculated mass plates.

constraints that could limit the results generalizability would include air distribution system that reduced the friction on the cart, the bobbers used as the falling mass, and the number of trials conducted. for the air distribution system, it reduced friction greatly but did not negate it. the experiment was assumed to be frictionless but given that the actual value is not known, that greatly reduces generalizability. if another scientist repeated the experiment with a different brand of bobber, the falling mass could be different than what was found in our experiment. last, our graphs only had five data points to find a summary of the relationship, but should a researcher test more data points and past the range of ours, the model may turn out differently. 

the two mathematical models found from this experiment are consistent with newton’s second law due to having units of mass and force negate to leave only acceleration.