conclusion

research question:  what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?

after conducting the experiment, collecting the data, and making the graphs we were able to draw up several conclusions about what impacts a pendulum’s period. before we drew up conclusions, we had to make predictions. our group predicted that with added weight, it would shorten the period of the pendulum. for angle, it was predicted that the period would last longer if the angle of release was larger, or vice versa if smaller. our final prediction was that the period would be shorter if the length was made shorter or vice versa if increased. not all of these claims would end up valid after performing the experiments. we found that only the length has a truly significant impact on the pendulum. this is evident based off the significant trendline or slope that the length versus time graph has. although the error bars are somewhat evident, these could have been the result of human error. therefore, our prediction that length would increase or decrease the period was valid. the angle, we concluded, had a small correlation with the period. there was a slope for the angle versus time graph but not clear or as significant as the length graph. also, the error bars are evident but not significant. it was evident that this probably was not totally accurate per five other lab groups who all said it had no affect. are prediction, therefore was right but maybe not quite as much of a change as we had anticipated. finally, we found that the weight has absolutely no affect. the mass versus time graph showed no slope at all, therefore there is no correlation between mass and the period. the error bars for the graphed data also were very big, further evidence that it did not have any affect. this means that our prediction was false. 

the theoretical equation is 2.  the theoretical model provides support for our conclusion because it states that the only factors that influence period are gravity and length. we did state that angle had some correlation, but obviously very little.  on the other hand, our length equation fits pretty well, as we had a theoretical model with a power of .41 instead of .5 in our fitted curve graph (see figure 5). this proves the theoretical model to be accurate. some errors include measuring in centimeters, human error, and our gravity value. measuring it in centimeters could be the cause for why our coefficient was different. another possible error was that we measured the value of gravity negatively (-9.8). if we measured it positively, it would have been much different. finally, human error might have caused some of the inaccuracy. when measuring the period with stopwatches, it is very easy to not stop it at the exact moment we should have. this could have resulted in much different times, that could have meant either bigger or smaller pendulum periods. finally, some constraints that may have affected the generalizability of the experiment include the string’s length, the amount of weight we could put on the plumb bob, and the way we released the plumb bob. because the string had a certain maximum length (like 200 centimeters or so), we were unable to measure from more than 200 centimeters. if the string was longer, we could have gotten even more measurements. also, we could only use a plum bob that had a maximum weight of 60 grams. had we gotten a plumb bob that was even bigger, we would have been able to see if there was any correlation between the period and weight more effectively. i feel that there would be a difference from 10 grams to like 10 pounds instead of only from 10 grams to 60 grams. finally, another constraint was the way we released the plumb bob. if we had pushed to the plumb bob instead of dropped it, we would have been able to see if that force affected the period.