discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of this lab is to create a mathematical model to simulate a real situation and find the behavior of a system and develop an understanding of how each variable and numerical value has an impact on a system. 

the three experiments provided very clear data that lead to the resulting mathematical models. the first two experiments in lab 5 showed how mass affects the acceleration of a system. the experiments had a cart on an air track with negligible friction connected to a hanging mass off the edge through a pulley system. the first experiment of lab 5 was increasing the hanging mass and see how the acceleration of the system was affected. the second experiment was increasing the mass of the cart to see how the acceleration of the system was affected. the first experiment showed that as the hanging mass increased, so did the acceleration. this shows that the as the force that causes the acceleration increases, so does the acceleration. the second experiment shows that as the mass of the cart increases and the force is constant throughout, the acceleration will decrease. this is shown in graphs 1 and 2. graph 1 is shown to have a constant increase in acceleration as the force of the hanging mass increases, and graph 2 shows how the increase in mass of the cart and a constant force decreases the acceleration. lab 6 shows how changing the physical setting of the lab can change the acceleration. all of the graphs for lab 6 shows that the change in acceleration is the same, but the acceleration itself for each value. this can be seen in the mathematical models from all the graphs. as the angle increases in the positive direction the y-intercept increases which means that the acceleration values are all greater. as the angle decreases then the y-intercept decreases and so will the overall acceleration values of that system. 


these photos are the findings of other groups. both mathematical shows how changing the physical setting of the experiment can affect the outcome. both boards show how the y-intercept changes based on the physical setting of the experiment. the slope is the change of acceleration that comes from increasing the hanging mass. the y-intercept shows how the acceleration values are all lower in general or higher in general based on how the physical setting of the lab changed the experiment. 

some errors that could have been presented in the lab are most likely systematic errors. there couldn’t have been many random errors in the experiments because everything was measured by a machine or measuring tool. errors that could have occurred are systematic errors from the timing device that measures the velocity and acceleration. there could also be systematic errors from the air track as well. these were accounted for by taking a lot of data points in order to reduce the error. our data does not seem skewed at all by these errors, so it is safe to say the effect of errors was little to none. 

there are a few factors that could affect our response to the research question.  two factors that are not explored are friction and air resistance. if we chose to explore the effect of friction it would change our research question. the new research question we could ask is is  what affect does friction have on the acceleration of the cart? we could explore the effect of friction by changing the force that air comes out of the linear air track. if we change the force of the linear air track expels air, it will change that the co-efficient of friction and as a result the acceleration of the cart. the second factor we have not explored is air resistance. in this experiment, we do not account for air resistance. the new research question we could ask is is  how does air resistance affect the acceleration of the cart? we can explore this by finding the theoretical acceleration of the cart without air resistance, then we can conduct an experiment designed to find the air resistance.  

both experimental models are consistent with newton’s second law $f=m a$. as the force of the hanging mass increases and the mass of the cart is constant acceleration increases which is seen in graph 1. if the force is constant and mass of the cart increases then the acceleration decreases which is shown from graph 2. this is consistent with what happens when calculating for acceleration with newton’s second law. as $\frac{f}{m}=a$ so as force increases so does acceleration and as mass increases the acceleration decreases, and this was proven from the experiments and shown in graphs 1 and 2.