conclusion:
The purpose of this lab was to introduce students to forms of error in a lab setting by having them analyze factors that may affect the period of a pendulum.  The first experiment performed involved timing a pendulum multiple times, each with a different length. It was predicted by the lab group that a longer pendulum would take more time to complete one swing. The data collected (see Figure 1c) suggested that this claim was valid, as even with error bars, the data points resulted in a positive slope. The second experiment tested whether mass would affect the period of the pendulum. In this experiment, the group predicted that mass would have no affect on the period, since it would experience the same acceleration due to gravity. The data in Figure 2c supported this claim since the overall slope was close to zero, and with error bars the points cannot be considered definitively different. The third experiment tested the affect of release angle on the period, with the group again predicting that there would be no effect for the same reason as the second experiment. This prediction was supported by the data in Figure 3c, where similar to 2c the error bars on the points suggested that they may be the same value. The theoretical model of the period of a pendulum is  . The formula from the second lab is similar to the theoretical formula, with a formula of  , albeit missing terms such as π and g. This is to be expected, as the data is much more accurate than that collected in Table 1b (as evidenced by the smaller error bars), and thus follows the power curve trendline more precisely. In fact, while Figure 1c shows a generally positive trend, its formula, , is not very accurate when compared to the theoretical formula (its error bars are much larger). The equations from Figure 2c and 3c,  and , differ the most from the theoretical, as both have a slope extremely close to zero. This affirms that these two factors, mass and angle of release, can be disregarded. (d.) Random error, as well as systematic error, were present in this lab. Random error is represented by error bars added to each data point, indicating that the true value of the point may not be exactly as reported. This could be reduced by taking data in a more precise environment with a smaller chance of outside interference from measuring error, inconsistent experimentation, etc. In the experiments this was reduced by having multiple people time when using stopwatches. Systematic error resulted from a consistent error in testing, such as measurements being off by the same relative amount each time, or an outside force applied with each pendulum drop. This can be reduced by using electronic systems to physically measure an carry out the experiment, which is what was done using the photogate.