discussion and conclusion. 


the research question being investigated in this lab is “what factors influence pendulum time?”

how each of the three experiments addressed the research question, the claims that were made, and the conditions under which the claims are valid.

the first experiment tested if mass influenced the period time of the pendulum. it was hypothesized that the mass of the pendulum would influence the speed of the pendulum, more specifically, it was predicted that the period time will decrease if more weight is added and the angle drop length as well as string length were held constant. as can be seen by figure 1 (time vs. weight), the values varied from drop to drop and many of the error bars overlap if they are doubled, indicating that mass does not influence the period time.  

the second experiment tested whether the angle dropped effected the period time if mass and string length are held constant. the claim made was that as the drop angle increased, so would the pendulum period time. as with experiment one- the error bars on the graph of figure 2 (time vs. angle) do overlap if doubled- indicating that the overlapping values could be the same. as a result- we can say that angle does not affect period time. there is a caveat to this statement, however, and that is for angles less that 20 degrees. 

the third experiment tests whether string length affects the period of a pendulum if mass and the angle are held constant (it was later revealed that for optimal results the angle must be at or below 20 degrees). we hypothesized that string length would affect the period time, more specifically, that a longer string would yield a longer period time. the graph of time vs. string length very clearly shows that the string length affects the period time. the error bars on this graph are almost unnoticeable and there is a clear positive correlation between string length and time. 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is is  . with an r^2 value of .9999 our formula ,  based on our graph, closely mirrors the theoretical. as can be seen by the formula- factors that are crucial for determining the period of a pendulum include the force of gravity as well as the length of the attachment mechanism (in this case string). it is important to note that this formula holds true for when the angle the pendulum is dropped is 20 degrees or less. the mass is not mentioned anywhere in the formula and can be determined to be unrelated the period time from a theoretical, and as we found, practical standpoint. 

 throughout the duration of this experiment there was both random and systematical error. possibly the most prominent form of error in our experiment was random error stemming from slow reaction times when handling the stop watch. to counteract this inaccuracy, we had several students with stop watches measuring the time- and all final times were then averaged. later, in the experiment cycle we used a stop gate time keeper instead, which was far more accurate than trying to measure period times ourselves. another form of random error due to technique can be observed in measurements of independent variables, such as drop angles and string length- which could vary depending on the person taking the measurements. in the future- one way to decrease random error would be to have one person take all the measurements, or to have a machine make the measurements for us- such as when we used the stop gate. systematic error was present in the experiment for the simple fact that not all measurement taking devices are perfect- they can’t be. systematic error can be observed in everything ranging from the marks on the yard stick to inaccuracy in the protractor. 

the most apparent constraint that limited our generalizability was our poor reaction times with the stopwatch. once the stopgate was used- we were able to formulate an equation our graph with an r^2 value of .9999. going forward, using the stopgate earlier and for all the tests would yield more conclusive results. additionally, time was a big constraint as the experiments had to be performed in a short amount of time and the number of data points for each experiment were limited- resulting in data that easily fluctuated.