discussion

the research question of “what will affect the period of a pendulum?’ was investigated in this lab. through three experiments, various principles were studied, and a conclusion was found. after studying the graph and charts and mathematical models, it was found that there was no relation between the weight of the object dropped and the period of the pendulum. the equation of the graph had no trend; the data points were unrelated to any factors. the same conclusion was found when angle of the pendulum and the period were studied. after analyzing the graphs, charts, and trendlines, there was no correlation between angle and period. the data points in that graph were random as well. when it came to the third test, which was length of the string and time, there was a positive correlation between the two. as length of the string increased, so did the time it took for one period to occur. it’s r^2 value was .9982, indicating a strong relationship. for the first two experiments, there was an uncertainty of 0.1, as signified in the error bars present. this allowed the conclusion to be made that angle and weight did not have an effect on the period of the pendulum. for the final experiment, length vs. time, done with a computer rather than hand timing, the uncertainty was  0.001, so the error bars can not be seen on its graph.

	there were a few sources of error in these experiments. many of the errors included human error. it was quite tough to judge both the start and stop of the pendulum swing while hand timing with a stop watch. also, the dropping of the weight was not always uniform; occasionally it would swing back and forth in a figure 8 type pattern or there would not be the same amount of tension in the string. also, air resistance was not taken into consideration. another source of error was that the string may have stretched out during the trials and that the angles were measured not as precise as they could have been. by performing the experiment indoors with no a/c blowing on it, air resistance could have been reduced and by remeasuring the string every time it was used could have improved confidence that it was not stretched out after the many trials.

	some constraints were that the timing was done mostly by hand with only three people to take measurements. only one person was responsible for dropping of the weight as well.