discussion and conclusion 

the purpose of lab 5 was to develop mathematical models using the data from a real lab setting whereas the purpose of lab 6 was to determine the importance of the numerical values from the mathematical models determined in lab 5. the first mathematical model in lab 5 was determined using graph 1 which was $y=0.0028 x - 0.001$ where y is equal to the acceleration of the system and x is equal to the force applied. the graph displayed a positively correlated linear graph which corresponds with the mathematical model. the force applied was increased in each trial by adding on fishing bobbers to the hanging object. the mathematical model means that as the mass of the hanging object, or in other words, the force applied increased, the acceleration of the system increased as well. 

the second mathematical model in lab 5 was determined by graph 2 to be $y=\frac{131.62}{x^{0.92}}$ where y equals the acceleration of the system and x equals the mass of the system. the graph displayed a negatively correlated exponential graph which corresponds with the mathematical model. the mass of the system was increased by adding slotted weights to the system. the mathematical model means that as the mass of the system increases, the acceleration of the system decreases.

the third experiment performed in lab 6 was determined by referring to graph’s 3, 4, and 5 to determine that the force applied, and the acceleration of the system demonstrate a positive and linear relationship to one another. it was determined that as the friction of the system was altered, the change had little to no effect on the acceleration of the system, deeming its effects insignificant. the friction of the system was increased by adding more magnets to the bottom of the system to create more friction between the cart and the air track. the mathematical model means that as the force applied increases, the acceleration of the system increases while the friction did not impact the numerical values of the experiment. 

between the data presented by the two groups above, we can be increasingly confident in our data because it was determined that other factors such as friction and tilt of the air track had no significant effect on the mathematical models and their numerical values. even though the variables tested were different, the end results were all of the same value in which the other factors, apart from mass of the system and the force applied, other factors did not play any role in the mathematical model along with the numerical values obtained. 

as with all experiments, there was error. particularly, the random error in this experiment included measurement discrepancy by the student when reading the balance. this can be avoided by taking special precaution and precision when weighing the mass of the objects and taking the average of more than one measurement. another possible random error includes clicking the scale device inaccurately or inconsistently when taking measurements. this can be avoided by having the same person work the system in order to gain familiarity and precision. also, improper attachment of the hanging objects on the system could have resulted in random error. in order to avoid this, the bobbers should be checked and attached securely to the string for each trial.  possible systematic errors include scale error in the balance, air track, and the computer system. these systematic errors are avoided by calibrating the devices used. 

constraints that restrict the generalizability of the results include the limitations of space and time. the space limitation may have increased the generalizability of the results by lengthening the track in order to conduct longer trials. also, time restrictions caused a limitation in the number of trials capable of being produced as well as the quality of those trials. the measurement devices used also may have affected the generalizability because the precision and accuracy may have been improved by using better supplied devices. 

the two mathematical models remain consistent with newton’s second law ($f=m a$). the first mathematical model, $a=0.0028 f-0.011$ related the forced applied and the acceleration of the system. this model means that as the force applied, or “f”, increased, the acceleration of the system, or “a”, increased as well just as in $f=m a$. the second mathematical model, $a=131.62 m^{-0.924}$ related the mass of the system and the acceleration of the system. this model means that as the mass of the system increased, the acceleration of the system decreased in order to maintain the total force of the system since $a=\frac{f}{m}$ according to rearranging newton’s second’s law in terms of acceleration and mass.