discussion and conclusion:

	the research question that our group investigated was whether the factors of string length, mass of the pendulum, or the angle of release would in any way change the period of a pendulum that was held under constant conditions. during the first lab we were able to directly look at the relationship between the period of the pendulum and the three independent variables, by testing one independent variable at a time. for testing the length of the string all other variables including angle of release and mass of the pendulum were held constant as to see if the length of the string had a direct effect on the period. through this first experiment our group found that the period is affected by the length of the string as there was a constant increase in the time of the period as the length of the string increased. this can be seen in the tables and graphs from part 1 as there are no points that deviated from the constant increase and there is a relatively large gap between each point in terms of the amount of time for the period. the other two independent variables of angle of release and mass of the pendulum we believed did not affect the period based on the data that we graphed. this belief was drawn from the fact that the range of time for different values of the independent variable were very small and could be accounted for by the random error of having a person use a stopwatch to find the time of the period. another thing was that there was no obvious correlation due to there not being a constant increase or decrease in period as the independent variable was increased. using this information from the first lab led us to investigate random and systematic errors that could be affecting our results and possible ways to fix that. in the second lab, we did ten trials using constant values for all variables to determine the amount of error that could be expected from one trial to another. from this lab we determined that the standard deviation while keeping the variables all constant was low which meant that there was some random error involved in the lab but that it was minimal which furthered our claim from the first lab that length of string was the only variable that affects the period. in the third lab, our group used a photogate to find the time of the period because a photogate is much more accurate and consistent then having one of us use the stopwatch to find time. this eliminated most of the random error involved in the lab so these results would be better to use. as can be seen by the graphs of all the independent variables with the error bars there was still only a correlation between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum.

	the equation or model for finding the period is 2*[(l/g)^(1/2)], where l is the length of the pendulum in meters. this compares very well to the model that we derived from our data which was [2.07*l]^(.503). simplifying the equation given to us leads to a very similar coefficient as ours as well as a very close exponent which further led us to believe that we were correct that length affects the period. we also tried to derive equations for the angle of release and mass of the pendulum variables but were unable to as there was no definite relationship between those two variables and period. which can be explained as the model for period only has the variable for length of string so it would be the only variable to affect period other than gravitational acceleration which would be constant on earth.

	in this experiment there were many random and systematic errors to consider and then having to determine whether these affected our confidence in our results. examples of systematic errors we considered were mostly from the equipment used, such as the accuracy of the protractor, tape measure, and stopwatches. these errors would not have affected our claims due to the values being precise but not necessarily accurate, but the relationship would still exist between the variables. random errors included having someone use the stopwatch and the difficulties of taking measurements. the random error was reduced by taking many trials and then averaging the values to show a better representation of the data. then using these errors, we found error bars to determine how much our data could be affected and looking at the graphs we remained confident in our claim.

	constraints in this experiment that may limit the generalizability of the results would be variables other than mass of pendulum, angle of release, and length of the pendulum. this would mostly be the environment in which the experiment was conducted. things to consider would be gravitational acceleration, wind resistance, air pressure, among other things that there was no way we could control. for our purposes it made sense that since the experiment took place in the same location that these variables would be constant but someone repeating the experiment but have completely different circumstances that could affect the results. other constraints would be equipment used as the accuracy and preciseness of the equipment can have an affect on the results but the relationships should remain the same as we found.