discussion and conclusion: 

	in labs 05 and 06, we investigated the behavior in the change in acceleration when the force to an object changed, and when the mass of the object was changed. the experiment with hanging weight as the independent variable addressed the change in force as was stated in our research question. the weight had a known mass so the resultant force on the cart could be calculated as the rail is assumed to be frictionless. as we look at the plot created from data points collected during this experiment, we see that the acceleration increases in a linear fashion relative to the force. the error bars on this graph stretch vertically approximately .25 m/s2. other groups, when discussing the reason for differences in mathematical models, came to largely the same conclusion as our group for the same factor. we looked at how friction could effect the accuracy of the models we derived. we concluded that as friction increased, the acceleration of the cart would decrease. as the magnets were moved around, the center of mass of the cart was changed and this caused friction to change for each different placement of the magnets. we found that, when compared with the third plot from above, our data aligned very closely with the data from this group. 





we found, after consulting another groups prediction and evidence, that our claim was supported by yet another groups findings. they tested the slant of the weight, and its effect on acceleration, and found that an increased slant resulted in decreased acceleration. their plots showed that an increased slant effected the y-intercept of the graph, rather than the shape of the curve. this leads us to believe that both of these factors affect the numerical values in similar ways.


	the theoretical equation for the experiment, $a =\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$, is supported by our theoretical model,                                   $ y = 2.8612 x + 0.0044$ because it follows the same form as the theoretical equation, with an added correction value of 0.0044. as we fit a trendline to our data points, we found that a linear line best fit the points at first glance, and this was supported by an r2 value of .9996. this value is very close to one, and is therefore an accurate representation of the behavior of the data. discrepancies in the system mass, change in bob mass and the mass of the string for example, are related to how well the model fits the curve and could increase or decrease this r2 value. 

	the enhanced theoretical equation, $a = \frac{f}{m_{sys}} +\frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$ is further supported by our experimental model. this enhanced model takes into account any external forces. this acts as a correction value for the model, because with many other factors affecting the experiment outside of those tested, the original model is not as accurate. our experimental model, $y = 2.8612 x + 0.0044$, follows the same form and includes this correction value discussed above. 

	adding a heavy string to connect the weight with the cart would effect the acceleration of the cart. the heavier the string, the more downward force there would be exerted on the cart. the mass of the string times the acceleration due to gravity would be this resulting force, and it would increase as more of the string came over the pulley. this would cause an increased force and therefore an increased acceleration of the cart. 

	error plays a large role in this experiment, as it does in many. some systematic errors could include inconsistencies with the “frictionless” rail, inconsistencies in measuring the mass of the weights, therefore skewing the calculated force, and the error innate in the computer program used to measure the acceleration. some sources of random error could include adding too much weight in tape to the cart, therefore effecting the acceleration, a failure to find the slope of the entirety of the curve on the program which would give a less accurate value for the acceleration, and a failure to attach the magnets to the appropriate areas. these errors could be reduced by being more accurate, precise, and more aware of how the small tasks may effect the larger experiment as a whole and the mathematical model in turn.

	this experiment has several constraints which effect the generalizability of the results. these constraints effect how the experiment was performed and in turn, how it could be performed again.