discussion and conclusion:

does the mass of the pendulum, the release angle of the pendulum and the length of the string effect the period of a pendulum?

we tested three separate variables to test how they would affect the length of the period of a pendulum. the first one we tested was the mass of the pendulum. we found out that the mass doesn’t affect the length of the period. the graph shows no correlation between the variables and that the error bars are not noticeable. the second variable was the length of the string on the size if the pendulum. we found out that the length of the string does affect the length of the period. the larger the string the longer the period and vise versa. the graph shows a very positive correlation between them. the third tested variable was the angle of release of the pendulum. we found that the size of the angle of releases does not affect the size of the period. the graph shows there is no correlation between the two variables.

the theoretical mathematical value is a coefficient of 1.99x^05and our model follows this very closely. the differences between this coefficient and our data is only 0.495, we used the coefficient of 2.0395 (for the length of string vs the size of the period.). this shows that our data for the length of string vs the size of the pendulum is accurate and close to the true value. our values in the graphs of the mass and the angle of release vs the size of the pendulum is very different from the theoretical. this shows they don’t affect the length if the pendulum. 

 some random errors included improper use of the stop watch, varying initial angle, additional acceleration added to the pendulum and improper measurement of the string. the systematic errors include tape measure error, the triple beam balance being properly calibrated and improper measurement of the pendulum. in order to reduce systematic and random errors it would be advantageous to run through the lab several times to hone all skills and techniques required to complete the lab, with practicing, more precaution could be taken to ensure that each starting condition is the same. also using more precise tools to determine the true values from the experiment. an apparatus could be designed to make 

one constraint we included was the length of string added to the pendulum because we were limited to the amount of string we could use. this limited the amount of data points we could have for the string. another constraint was the weight on the pendulum, we were limited to the amount of weight provided and this gave us a lower number of data points possible to use.