conclusion:
Answering our original experimental design template, all the labs have come together to show the only thing that alters the period of a pendulum is the length of the string that it swings from. Looking at the graphs from lab 1 and 2, the change in weight could potentially have a positive correlation but the third data point taken is too much out of line to make this theory true. Looking again at the graphs from lab 1 and 2, the change is release angle is almost certainly too haphazard to constitute any type of correlation. Even with the error bars in place, some values fall beyond them and make it impossible to see a pattern. Finally, for string length, all the lab graphs show a positive correlation between the points. The error bars for the final string length graph are incredibly small showing that none of the values could potentially overlap proving that different values were achieved for differing string lengths.
The correct equation for the time in correlation to the string length is $T=0.995 L$. We didn’t get very close to this number as our calculations must have been incorrect or our range of data was too small. Instead, we got $T=2.82726625 L$. Our theory is that we didn’t test lengths of string far enough apart and got very close together values. Through the testing phase, a random error that we would encounter was not starting and stopping the stopwatch at just the right time for the period. We would always be off in some way so when we finally started using the photogate that random error was completely removed. It could have potentially been replaced by systematic error if the photogate wasn’t properly calibrated, but our data would have still been more consistent. Through the experiment, we had several constraints that we had to work around. One was that we had to complete our trials and lab records within a certain time and couldn’t afford to perform a lot of trials or risk running out of time in class. We also had to deal with weight increments of 20 grams and length of string with wraps around the supporting pole. This led to odd string length measurements in the case of the string tests and an impossible way to graph the points between what weights we had in relation to our weight tests.
Error and uncertainty are a surprisingly important aspect of science since any value you get during any test is just an assumption of what the actual value is. When uncertainty comes into play, values that you thought were different could be the same, and values that you though were the same could potentially be different. In this situation, uncertainty helped us determine that string length determines the length of a period.