discussion and conclusion:

the question being investigated in this lab is what factors will affect the period of a pendulum

              after experimentation was carried out, the conclusions could be drawn based on graphical data that the mass of a pendulum and its angle of release, if changed independently and under otherwise identical conditions, would not have any effect on the period of the pendulum. this can be seen in the graphical results of the tests that were carried out by the lack of trend in the points, considering error bar values, besides that of not correlation or trend. again, these claims are only valid as one variable is changed at a time and all others are held constant as described in the experiment information boxes above.

for the experiment of string length v. pendulum period, the prediction was made that the longer the length of the pendulum, the longer its period would be. this prediction was confirmed during testing and data analysis. the graphical results of this can be clearly seen in the data provided above as a power curve with an r2  value of 0.997, indicating a strong positive correlation in the data set to the mathematical model predicted.

                 similar to what is described above, the mathematical model for the factor in which there is correlation between dv and iv shows the resulting correlation to be in the form of a power curve with the equation $y=0.12634503 x$. our test data fit this model with very high accuracy, resulting in an r2 value of 0.997. for the models in which there is no correlation between the iv and the dv, there is no noticeable trend in the data when the calculated error bars are attached to the plotted data points. the lines remain essentially straight and constant indicating that there was not a change in pendulum period when the mass or the release angle of the pendulum were changed independently of each other.

as the labs progressed and more testing was done to evaluate the effects of the three variables on the period of a pendulum, steps were also taken to reduce the errors present in the data collection and test procedure. the largest form of error initially present in the data was the human factor associated with coordination, starting, and stopping of the stop watches to manually record the period of the pendulum. to initially reduce error, multiple people recorded times that were averaged during each trial. by the final lab, a photogate timing system had been adopted that electronically started and stopped all readings based on the physical position of the pendulum. this addition of automation and repeatability between identical tests greatly improved the quality and precision of the data recorded. the other small systematic errors present include uncertainty in the mass, length, and angle measurements resulting from manual angle set up, length measurement, and the unknown calibration of the mass scales used. similar to timing, each of these factors could be systematically engineered against and increased further in precision to narrow down the data collected into more and more precise forms.

as we discovered and learned during further testing and experimentation with our physical model and test stand, the claims made above for the effects on periods of pendulums only hold true for small swing angles <16 degrees from vertical. above this angular limit the uncorrelated variables begin to show noticeable effect on the period, specifically release angle which will increase the period of the pendulum in relation to how far greater than 16 degrees from vertical the pendulum is released.