discussion and conclusion: 

	the question at hand for all the variables is “what impacts the period of a pendulum?” as a group we came up with three different variables that we thought might impact the period. first, the impact of the angle of release on the time period for a pendulum was investigated. the results for this variable are listed above under “variable 1 is  angle” while the data is plotted within “graph 1. angle of release vs. period time.” from looking at this graph our data showed an upwards positive correlation between the independent and dependent variable. the line is not quite linear but is fairly close. this would lead our prediction to be true, that the increase in angle of release did increase the period of a pendulum. 

	the second variable investigated was how the length of the string impacts the period of the pendulum. the results for this variable are listed above under “variable 2 is  length” while the data is plotted within “graph 2. length of string vs period time.” from looking at this graph we can conclude that there is a positive correlation between the length and the time of a period. this is done through a power curve that represents the data fairly well, with an equation that gave an r^2 value of 0.966. it can be concluded that the prediction was correct; the longer the string of the pendulum, the more time it takes to complete one period.

	the third variable that was investigated was how the mass of the pendulum impacts the period of the pendulum. the results for this variable are listed above under “variable 3 is  mass” while the data is plotted in “graph 3. mass vs. period time.” looking at the graph does not state whether there is a correlation or not, there is a big spread within the data that would make one believe that there were possible errors within the data collection. the best line to fit this data was a linear line, which a high slope. this slope would conclude that there is a correlation between mass and the period of a pendulum, and that mass does impact the period of a pendulum. with this statement it can be concluded that the prediction was correct; as the mass increases, the time of the period will also increase. 

	the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum obtained from textbooks is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. out of the three graphs about the only one that closely represents this model was “graph 2. length of string vs. period time.” this graph shows how the length of the pendulum impacts the period of the pendulum. the other two graphs, “graph 1. angle of release vs. period of pendulum” and “graph 3. mass vs period time” do not represent the theoretical model. the graph that does fit this model also fits a power curve, with this it can be said that the length of a pendulum string indeed does impact the period of the pendulum. 

	in most data collections there will be some sort of error involved, within this one a potential source of random error could be from the stopwatches. this is from the rounding that the stopwatch has in place when the button is clicked. to reduce this source of random error, each trial was run multiple times and the average of the trials was taken to minimize differences in the values. another source of potential error is from systematic error could be from incorrect measurement of the angles and or length of the strings. to resolve these errors in future data collection it would be best to have multiple people measuring the string and angle of release for each trial. doing so will help eliminate or minimize the systematic error involved. error can also come from an uncalibrated scale, this would cause the mass on the pendulum to be heavier or lighter than the actual mass. this can be fixed by calibrated the scale correctly or using a scale that is known to be calibrated correctly. another potential source of systematic error could be from starting the stopwatch late or letting it run past the actual period of the pendulum. a way to resolve this source of error would be to have multiple stopwatches on each trial, then taking the average of total number of stopwatches, which will help reduce the error. 

	with a limited supply of tools/equipment on hand this experiment had some constraints. using a different type of string, one that is more taut or loose string may have impacted the results obtained within the experiment. another constraint was that the angles of release were all below 20 degrees, if the angle would have been greater this could allow for more calculations to be done that could ultimately result in less error within the experiment. systematic and random errors could have been reduced if the time frame for doing the experiment was lengthened. this being do to the fact that more time could have been put into predictions, pendulum set up, and more trials could have been run. this would help in the case of understanding the outcomes in more depth or if the idea of error being in the data, then the variable could have been tested again to check if the results were similar to the first test. if the results from both tests were different, then a third test could have been done to see which of the trials contained more error.