discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this lab was to develop mathematical models which describe the behavior of the system composed of the glider, hanging bobs and any added mass to the system, as well as to develop an understanding for each numerical value included in the model. 

our models are based on the equation $f=m a$ which describes newton's second law. we modified it to be $a = m^{-1}$ and $a=c f$ to model or data based on keeping a constant mass and force respectively. these equations were then obtained from the graphed data and the fit curve on graphs one and two. the force in the second case is constant since the mass hanging did not change.

our first relationship was similarly linear like it should as $a = f  a + c$. when we held the hanging mass constant, we managed a linear fit. for the second graph, the actual relationship was a 1/mass relationship; however we got a -⅓ power. this could have been caused by a non-constant force in practice or imperfect slope findings.

for graph 3 we found that the more force put on the hanging weight, the faster the acceleration the car.  although with slant added there was a decrease in acceleration, the above statement stood constant with the more force on the hanging weight, the greater the acceleration. the slant of the track represents the c2 value and the slope of the graph represents the change in force relative to a constant mass. as the incline became more prevalent, the force and, therefore, acceleration decreased. this is shown as each increased incline caused the line to be under the next. as the incline becomes less steep, the force and acceleration would increase. c1 is roughly 1 / mass *gravity. 1/ .3978 which is 2.51. this is rather close to our slope value of 2.83. the value is rather close as we assumed there was no friction. c2 is rather close to actual value because with a slope of 0, the y intercept was nearly 0. c2 is roughly the slope of the incline. at a slope of 0, the y intercept was roughly 0. at a slight incline, the y intercept was slightly negative. at a greater incline, the y intercept become more negative.

we found out using our mathematical models that a larger force created a larger acceleration. factors that affected this included the height of the track, since if there was a slope the motion of the cart was affected. a higher track results in less motion.

for the first model we are very confident in our mathematical model from excel. the linear trend line passes through the points nearly perfectly and shows a very clear correlation. however, for our second model, we believe the graph is inaccurate since the exponent should be -1. our error is 0.001 based on the data collection software therefore since it is so small and we took multiple tries for each acceleration, we are very confident in our data and graph results. error is likely to be systematic since the equipment used is very precise and as graph 3 suggests any imperfection in the system remained constant since we used the same equipment and components, therefore the relationships still hold true.

factors that were not tested by us but can affect the acceleration of the system are gravity and friction. gravity could be investigated by changing gravity each time we do a trail. we could change gravity by testing on different planets and moon. friction could be investigated by adding magnets to the system. this would increase the friction. a new research question could be asked is as friction and gravity increases, the acceleration decreases.

our findings align with the results of fig 1 and fig 2. changing the slope of the track resulted in a systematic change of slope where all results simply shifted down. however for fig 3 where the group used magnetic strips, the slopes of the lines changed with adding magnets resulting in a lower acceleration.