discussion and conclusion:

	the purpose of this lab was to use mathematical models to determine the effect that force has on acceleration of a system. the mathematical models allow for a deeper understanding of how exactly the change in the independent variable impacts the dependent variable. for example, once my group understood the relationship between force applied and acceleration of a system, we used different mathematical models to determine what happens when a system is traveling up an incline. in this lab, we performed 3 experiments, 2 in lab 5 and 1 in lab 6. in the first experiment, my group tested the relationship between mass of the hanging weight and the cart’s acceleration. this was done by adding weight from the cart onto the hanging weight, where the hanging weight acted as the applied force. once plotting the data into excel, we came up with a mathematical model of $y=0.1032 x^{1.35}$ with an r^2 value of .0182, as shown in graph 1. this result was inaccurate due to a mistake made while performing the experiment. the mistake that we made was the method in which we added mass from the cart to the hanging weight. this mathematical model did not support my group’s hypothesis and was extremely inaccurate, as well. in the first experiment in lab 6, my group tested the relationship between the gravitational force of the hanging weight and the acceleration of the cart. this was done by adding more and more mass to the hanging weight. adding more mass to the hanging weight increased the heaviness of the weight, causing the gravitational force to increase. once we acquired all of the data and graphed it, excel gave us a mathematical model of $y=2.7118 x + 0.012$ with an r^2 value of .9977, as shown in graph 2. this model is accurate because there was very minimal error in our results. additionally, the model supported our hypothesis because of the positive, linear slope of the graph. the model allowed me to see that force and acceleration are directly related if mass is constant. it was also very clear for me to see that as more force was acting on the cart, it traveled faster and faster. in the final experiment in lab 6, my group tested the relationship between force applied and acceleration, but this time adding a tilt to the track. we knew from the previous experiment that as force increases, so does acceleration. however, we were determining if the steepness of the track would alter the results at all. my group did this by adding flat objects to the end of the track, which would cause the cart to have to travel uphill. also, doing this meant that the hanging weight was higher off the ground. the three heights that we measured were 9.5, 15.85, and 22.23 mm. once we graphed the data, we were given a mathematical model of $y=2.7539 x - 0.048$ with r^2 value .9998 for graph 3, $y=2.8031 x - 0.083$ with an r^2 value of .9996 for graph 4, and $y=2.8402 x - 0.115$ with r^2 being .9986 for graph 5. all three mathematical models had a positive, linear slope. as the tilt became larger in magnitude, the acceleration of the cart decreased, as shown by the constants. however, the slope of the graphs increased when the heights increased because the cart had to work harder to travel the same distance. this is because of the height that the hanging weights were released from. the force of gravity acts on the weights, and the further that the weights fall to the ground, the faster they move. this causes an increase in force applied on the cart. that is why the slope of the graph is larger for the height of 22.23 mm than that of 9.5 mm. these results support newton’s second law because as force increases, so does acceleration. 
based on the graphs from group 2, we concluded that friction does not affect the acceleration of a system. additionally, group 4’s findings agreed with our findings because they concluded that as the cart travels down an inclined track, the acceleration will increase. this agrees with our mathematical model because we found that as a system goes uphill, its acceleration decreases. the cart also has to work harder to accelerate uphill than downhill due to the gravity acting against it as opposed to with it. i can confidently say this because as the cart goes more downhill, the c2 value will increase. my group found that the higher the steepness of the track, the lower the c2 value will decrease. 

	my group did not find any random errors in these labs, but we did find a systematic error. one of our systematic errors was in adding mass to and from the cart. our scale was not accurate enough because we did not reset it, so this potentially altered our results without us knowing it. another systematic error that we found was that we did not correctly add mass from the cart to the hanging weight. we did this over and over again for the first experiment, so that is why our data is so inaccurate. to reduce these errors in the future, we should read the directions more carefully, ask more questions, and make sure that all measurement tools are accurately recording. a constraint in this experiment was the time limit given to us. if more time would have been given, we could have fixed our first experiment so that our data was more accurate and precise. overall, my group’s data and mathematical models support newton’s second law that $f = m a$. in our experiments, the mathematical models agreed with newton’s laws because the constants in the models showed that as force increased, so did acceleration.