conclusion:



the research question being investigated in this lab is what are the factors that impact the period of the pendulum. our group decided to test the three factors of the change in mass, angle of pull upwards, and the length of the string in hopes to see which of those independent variables impacted the period. at the end of the experiment we made the claims that the only variable that impacted the period was the change in length of the string. we came to this conclusion by evaluating our graphs. figures #1 and #2 display a straight horizontal line with error bars that capture all the data points surrounding them and therefore saying that the change in mass and angle of pull upwards did not affect the period of the pendulum. also, these error bars were one standard deviation from each point, and since all the data points fell in between the bars, we were fairly confident in our claim. our condition in the experiment were that we used the same materials for all the trials (except in figure #4 where we used a photogate) and the trials were in the same room at the same location. when we changed one variable, we kept the other variables constant, and we always had the same person doing each step. the theoretical mathematical model for this experiment comes from the equation $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. (t is the time of each period, l is the length of string, and g is the impact of gravity). our data fits in with this model specifically in figure #4 and #11. the equation calculated in our experimental grouping of data points shows the value being raised to a value of 0.4617. this is very close to raising a value to the power of one half, or taking the square root of the length, as represented in the theoretical equation. the other value in our equation is 2.0549 (sec/(sqrt m)) and this is 0.0478 off of the theoretical value of 2.0071 (sec/(sqrt m)). the factors of mass and angle that did not affect the period were not in this equation and therefore validate our theory of the length of the string being the only one to impact the period of the pendulum. with both of these numbers being so close to the equation we calculated with our power formula, it is clear that our conclusions from our analysis a very close to those of the theoretical model. we had systematic and random errors in our experiment. some of the systematic errors were that the scale for our bob’s mass could have been off if it wasn’t zeroed properly (this could be fixed by buying a more precise scale or having a robot weigh the bob), the measuring tape was old and its lines were blurred, making it difficult to measure length (this could be fixed by having pre-measured lengths of string to test or by buying a better or more precise tape-measure), lastly, the timer could have been faulty if the button pressed to start timing was glitchy (this could be fixed by using a photogate sensor, which we ended up doing on lab day #3). some of the random errors were that our reaction time when pressing the timer fluctuated (both at the beginning and end of the period), and that the way we could have dropped with pendulum was not exactly the same every single time (we tried to reduce this error by having the same person release the bob every time). these random errors could be fixed by using a robot to do the calculations (like when we used the photogate on the third day of lab). another way we could eliminate all error is by taking many many samples from many trials and averaging them. some of our constraints were that when we timed each pendulum, sometimes the timers pressed the button when the releaser said go, and other times when they saw it being released. we tried to get rid of this by averaging the time between two time-keepers, but even that didn’t 100% fix our problem. this limitation came from using timers to calculate the length of the period, and ideally would have been taken over by robots timing the experiment. another constraint was complimented by the random error of human mistakes. for instance, since humans were preforming this experiment, there could be error in pushing the timer button, guessing the length in between two tick marks on a ruler, or when zeroing a scale. lastly, time was a constraint, and if we had more time, we could have done more trials and been able to generalize the data better.