
Discussion and Conclusion:
The purpose of this experiment was to investigate which factors affect the acceleration of a system involving a hanging object, a pulley, and a sliding object.  The investigation regarding the affect that the hanging mass had on the system showed that the greater the hanging mass, the greater the acceleration of the system.  This supports the hypothesis that the hanging mass affects the systems acceleration.  The graph of acceleration based on hanging mass, it can be concluded that these two variables have a linear relationship.  Based on the extremely small error bars, we can be very safe in this conclusion.  
The theoretical equation of this particular situation is $a =  \frac{f}{m}$ .  This ties in to the experimental mathematical model $a =C1 m + C2$.  C1 was the calculated slope from the plotted trend lines of each number of bars.  C2 was calculated was calculated from the y intercept of each of these lines, showing where the cart would be at zero.  This returns the same value as the theoretical equation and as such is a way to determine the acceleration of the system using observable information.
	The enhanced theoretical equation of this experiment is $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$.  This is supported by our experimental equation as our C1*mass is equal to f/Msys and our C2 value is equal to Fext/Msys.  These extra parameters are useful for better isolating different factors and their effect on the experiment.
	In the case of a string with an increase in mass, that extra mass would effectively add itself to whatever side of the system more of the string is on.  If 75% of the string’s mass is on the sliding object side of the string, than the sliding object would have 75% of the strings mass added to it.  Some consideration may need to be made when finding force of friction though as the increased mass of the string would have a unique effect on the friction of the sliding object.  As the system moved, the mass would be pulled to the other side of the system and the mass would then be added to the mass of the falling object.    
   	The results of another group testing the same hypothesis lead them to conclude that the friction of the system was a constant value that was unaffected by increases in the mass of the falling object.  This is supported by our graph 2.5 and the consistent slopes of all three lines.  
	The results of a group that had tested the same hypothesis but had done so on a sloped system showed a much lower constant of friction.  It was concluded that this was because the slope made it so that the force of gravity could no longer be completely cancelled by the normal force thus resulting in a smaller coefficient of friction.  This also proves that the surface that the object is sliding on is in fact not completely frictionless.
	
Some errors that could have affected the experiment include slight variations in where exactly the sliding object was released and the presence of a not entirely frictionless surface.  The former would affect the data as a result of slight changes that might have been caused by releasing the sliding block at slightly different distances.  These errors were reduced by clearly marking where the block needed to be released from and releasing it from that distance multiple times to ensure that the numbers we got were consistent.  The fact that the sliding surface was not entirely frictionless produced a very slight systematic error.  There is little that can be done about this error and it can be kept from causing issues by keeping the normal force consistent by maintaining a constant mass on the sliding object.  This is not an issue in the test of the effect of the mass of the falling object as this is what is being tested.
Our experiments were constrained by the setup that we were working with.  We could only test up to a certain mass on the sliding object and the falling object.  This means that any additional factors introduced by high mass objects cannot be accounted for with this experiment.  Additionally, we were unable to measure the effect of air resistance on the system. This means that our results do not factor in how differently shaped objects and terminal velocity might affect results.   Finally, the mass of our string was mostly negligible.  We cannot account for changes in the data that would have resulted from a significantly heavier string. 

