discussion and conclusion 

the purpose of labs was to determine the mathematical relationship between force, mass, and acceleration. this was determined by changing the incline of the air track mass and force. then we observed the change of acceleration in each case. 

experiment 1 in lab 5 tested the transferring of mass from the cart to the hanging mass. this relationship is an example of a linear model. we found that the acceleration and force was directly proportional to the tranfer of mass. the more mass transferred to the hanging mass the more force and acceleration there would be.

experiment 2 tested the adding of mass to only the cart. with a constant force from the hanging masses weight remaining constant and the carts increasing we found there to be an inverse relation ship between mass and acceleration. when the mass increased the acceleration decreased. though as the mass increased the force also increased. our mathematical models supported our claims we made before beginning the experiment.

experiment 3 tested the relationship between the transfer of mass from cart to the hanging mass on the incline of the air track and the force. we saw that as the incline increased so did our acceleration, so the force of the cart increased. so our mathematical models from the experiment proved our hypothesis. 
experiment 1 group 4 supports our linear model. group fours equations are also very close to ours
experiment 2. group 4s finding supported our power model since our equations were both to the same power.
the uncertainties from labs 5 and 6 were very low. our uncertainties for all of our experiments were never more the +.01 or -.01 this allowed our group to be very comfortable with our results. however there is always room for improvement. if we would’ve account for air resistance or friction in either of the experiments our results would have been very precise. our results could have been not as accurate in some instants from random error. for example, we may have been able to be more accurate for the inclined experiment if we had a very precise way to measure the angle of the incline. if we could have been more accurate with the incline, then we would be able to have more accurate results. 
constraints for our experiment were that friction was never tested in any of the experiment even though it was present in everyone. another constraint that was never tested was if the cart was to be pushed rather than pulled. mass was also constrained in most experiment for example what if the hanging mass was very large or if the cart was. would there be a different correlation then what we found? 
the equation that was used for these experiments was $a=\frac{f}{m}$ which was changed from the original equation which was $f=m a$. this equation only supports our model when there is no friction. if we had more mass then what the air tract could handle then our equation would not work since friction would play a large role because as mass is increased then the friction force on the system is increased. our equation does indefinitely support our claim that as mass is increased then the acceleration will decrease. since for force to remain the same value then the acceleration would have to decrease since the mass is increased. so our models are all pretty good representations of realistic models in a frictionless world however the world is not so our models would not support real world situations. 

if we were to use a heavier string in our experiments, we would find that it would alter our findings. we would find our force, and accelerations to be different since the string may add more or less force and acceleration to the system. so ultimately the heavier string would skew all of our results which would cause a systematic error in all of our experiments.