discussion and conclusions

	as previously mentioned, these laboratories were aimed to investigate what factors influence the period of a pendulum. the independent variables chosen to be tested were length, angle of release, and mass. four experiments were conducted (two experiments for length). these experiments addressed the research question by demonstrating the relationship between the period and each independent variable. 

	the team predicted the mass would influence the period of a pendulum. however, upon analysis of the data collected in the experiment, the results indicated there was no relationship between mass and period. this was deducted because the period remained relatively consistent despite varying masses. this relationship can be seen in both table 5 because the periods, despite changing masses, were all very close. additionally, the relationship can be observed in figure 2. this graph shows that there is almost no fluctuation in the periods. all the data points are in a nearly straight horizontal line. the team, hence, concluded that the mass does not affect the period while the length and angle of release are held constant. this conclusion refutes the team’s hypothesis and prediction that the mass will have a negative correlation with the period.

	as seen in table 3, the team predicted that the angle of release will also affect the period of the pendulum. the data collected shows a slightly positive trend. in table 6 the periods seem to increase when the angle of release increases (barring the period at a 75º angle, which is probably due to error). also, figure 3 shows the data on a graph. the data points appear to trend upward positively, again barring the data point at 75º. this shows that there could be a slightly positive correlation between angle of release and period of the pendulum. however, the data collected is not clear enough to draw an accurate and confident conclusion. therefore, the hypothesis can’t be refuted or supported using the given experiment.

	two experiments were conducted on how the length of the string affected the period of the pendulum. the team expected there to be a positive correlation between length and period. the data collected in the first experiment shows a positive correlation between the length and period. table 4 shows the period increasing while the length increases, and figure 1 shows the data points have a positive trend. this test was done while keeping both the angle (45º) and the mass (50 g) constant. therefore, the team chose to further investigate how the length influences the period in lab three in hopes of drawing a more confident conclusion. with additional research the team found that the angle of release on affects the period for angles greater than 20º (serway and jewett 401). therefore, in experiment four the team held the angle (less than 20º) and the mass (50 g) constant also in the fourth experiment, the team used a photogate to more accurately and quickly record the period at different lengths. the data collected can be found in table 7. the periods shown in table 7 show an obvious correlation that as the string gets longer so does the period. furthermore, figure 4 shows there is a positive correlation by providing a trendline for those data points. the trendline generated has and r2 value of 0.9999 showing that it very accurately represents the data. from both experiment one and experiment four, the team concluded that evidence supported the hypothesis and prediction. there is, in fact, a positive correlation between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum for small angles.

	as mentioned above, a trendline was generated in experiment four. this trendline is the mathematical model for the period of a pendulum. the equation, as shown in figure 4, is $t=0.9970814 l$ where t is the period in seconds and l is the length in meters. this means that for small angles (less than 20º) the period is given by that equation and is only dependent on the length of the string. additionally, the data fits the mathematical model very well due to the r2 value of 0.9999. this equation is consistent with previous scientific findings that state the period of a pendulum on earth is described by $t=1.0 l$ (serway and jewett 401). 

	no experiment can be conducted to 100% certainty. some random errors encountered by the team include is  human reaction time when collecting the period and not releasing the pendulum from exactly the right angle. to reduce the human error when collecting the period, the team did two things. in the first lab the team collected multiple measurements and averaged them out. in the third lab the team used a photogate to collect extremely accurate measurements of the period. in the future a computerized mechanism could be used to release the pendulum at a consistent angle. one systematic error that could’ve been present is that the mass may not have been exactly what the hanging mass said it was. the actual mass may have consistently been slightly more or less than the expected mass. this error could be reduced in future experiments by actually weighing the mass prior to each trial.

	there were some constraints to these experiments. obviously, the pendulum swings due to gravity caused by earth. therefore, the gravitational constant acting upon the pendulum would more than likely affect the period as well. the team could not test the pendulum with other gravitational constants acting upon it, so the mathematical model can only be generalized to pendulums near the earths surface. there are other factors that could’ve played a part in the period of the pendulum that the team did not have the resources to test such as altitude and material of the string. 

	