discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this experiment was to determine what factors affect the length of a period of a pendulum and to develop a theoretical mathematical model in the form of an equation to reflect these findings. 



the first lab involved taking multiple trials of measuring the period of the pendulum while varying mass, length of string, and angle of release one at a time. this served as a way to know how to properly vary each independent variable and record the change in the dependent variable while keeping all else constant in order to determine if this change had any effect. the second lab involved error measurements that involved whether a claim could be made that a variable affected the length of a pendulum based upon recorded error measurements. finally, the third lab involved creating mathematical models with the collected data which produced a claim of the collected results in the form of the actual equation. from these 3 labs, claims were made that the length of the string does affect the period, the mass of the weight does not affect the period, and the angle of release does not affect the period. from the results, it could be claimed one of the variables affected the period if as that variable was changed (holding all else constant) the length of the period of the pendulum changed enough for the data point’s error bars to not overlap. referring to the time/length graph, the time change between different lengths is significantly larger than the value of error in measurement, so it can be claimed length does affect the period. for both angle of release and mass, the data points all fall between error bars of each other so therefore it cannot be said that mass or angle of release affects the period.



theoretical mathematical model is  $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. our finding that only length affects the period of a pendulum out of the variables tested is consistent with that of the theoretical model. starting with mass, there is no variable in the theoretical equation to represent mass meaning it does not influence the period. this is consistent with our collected data of period lengths of 1.63, 1.63, 1.65, 1.66, and 1.66 seconds for mass values of 130, 190, 230, 110 and 170 grams as the period does not make any significant change. as with mass, there is also no variable in the theoretical equation to represent angle of release. this corresponds with our collected data when angle of release was varied as we collected values of 1.62, 1.65, 1.65, 1.66, and 1.68 seconds for angles of 30, 40, 45, 50, and 60 degrees. these results reflect that there is no significant change in the period of a pendulum as the angle of release is varied. finally, our findings that length plays a role in the period of a pendulum is consistent with the theoretical equation as length is included as a variable. our equation produced does not follow the logarithmic form of the theoretical, however the general shape of our graph is similar to that of a logarithmic equation (experimental errors may have cause the deviation from the logarithmic form). the results collected for length are period values of 1.118, 1.297, 1.449, 1.579, 1.700, 1.808 and 1.890 seconds with lengths of 30 through 90 cm in increments of 10 cm. these results suggest period has a positive relationship with length which is consistent to the theoretical equation. 



random errors were present throughout the experiment, though systematic errors don’t appear to be a present as values were not consistently above or below what they were expected to be. when the data was collected a  number of safeguards were taken to reduce the number of errors including is  having the same person release the weight each trial, having the same people measuring each trial, having two people time each trial and checking for significant differences between the two measured times, having the same person measure the angle each trial, having the same person measure the length of string each trial, and taking a number of trials for each data point. measures that could have increased the accuracy of data further include is  using a more accurate timing device (which was utilized in experiment 3), an automated release mechanism (in case a small push was applied by the person on release) and using even more trials for each data point (or taking more data points).



there are a few constraints within this experiment that limited the generalizability of the results due to the equipment available. the length of the string was not able to go further than approximately 100cm due to the length of the pendulum not being long enough. the available weight also was limited to 230 grams or less, so we were unable to obtain results for values larger than that. though mass did not end up affecting the period, if larger values of length were used, the data would likely conform to the ideal mathematical equation better. the largest errors were present in the graph of period versus length for points of 40cm,1.297seconds and 90cm,1.890 seconds. the difference between these points and the mathematical best-fit curve produced suggest that either these points or other points on the curve had some type of significant systematic or random error when being measured. 


