conclusion:
The purpose of this lab was to see what factors one could use to impact the acceleration of a system. Our group specifically tested the changing the location of the mass, by keeping the mass of the system constant, changing the mass of the system by adding weights to the cart itself and only keeping two bobs on the end of the string, and by testing the impact of friction on the system by doing three trials of 8, one with no friction (similar to the first lab from Lab 05), one with little friction, and one with a larger amount of friction. When developing models for lab 05, our first experiment showed the relationship surrounding Newton’s Second law that $f=m a$ by being a straight line with a slope being close to the inverse of the mass of the system. Our group came to an understanding that the added friction did not affect the acceleration of y-intercept to lab 06, because the slopes for all 3 graphs were all very close to 1/mass, and they were all very similar to each other. Also, and most importantly, the y-intercepts of all three graphs were very close to each other, and therefore showed that changing the friction on the system does not impact Newton’s Second Law.
The first experiment in lab 05 was in relationship with Newton’s Second Law of $f=m a$. Since in Figure 5, the correlation found was a direct relationship of the change in force on the system to the change of the acceleration on the cart, if one were to flip the equation around into a more linear model $a = \frac{f}{m}$. The slope of this equation is 1/mass, and the inverse of the mass of our system was about 2.94, and the slope of our line was about 3, so therefore, our data followed this formula very well. The error bars were too small to be seen, and the R2 value was 1, so it is also known that for figure 5, our data was very similar to the impact of Newton’s Second Law. In the second graph from lab 05, we found the relationship between the mass of a system and the acceleration of the system when the mass of the system was being changed between each trial. Our equation for figure 6 was Acceleration (m/s2) which is  0.1302(mass on the system)-0.992. This Power trendline is very similar to the formula $F=m a$ that was used about. This is due to the mass of the system being raised to a value of almost -1, which is like taking the inverse of the mass of the system. Therefore, both experiments in lab 05 were related to Newton’s Second Law.
In lab 05, we did three experiments that were fairly similar to the first experiment in lab 05. We were still testing for the relationship between force and acceleration, but this time we changed the friction on the system. In figures 8,9,10, one can see that all three of those slopes are fairly similar to each other. Also, the y-intercepts were fairly similar, which was the main variable we were testing because we already previously found out that the slope of the force vs. acceleration graph would be one over the inverse, and we wished to see what the C2 value or y-intercept would do if friction were to be added. Since nothing did happen, we can confidently day that friction does impact the force or acceleration of the system.
The above whiteboard from GROUP 3, displayed the relationship between the force and acceleration of the system when the track was tilted forward. The angle of tilt in this data is represented in the positive y-intercept in their graphs. Therefore, the angle of tilt on the system does impact the force and acceleration in a positive way. The slope is of course, the inverse of the mass of the system.

The about whiteboard is from GROUP 2, they also collected data on the impact of friction on the force and acceleration of the cart. However, there equations did show a change in the y-intercepts of the three graphs, and therefore is not very similar to our graph. That being said, we are still confident with our own observations that the added friction did not impact the force and acceleration, because of its relationship to the mathematical models.There is no whiteboard picture present for the tilt downwards in the track, but, after talking to the other groups, we found out that the tilt downwards in the track impacted the graph by making the y-intercept negative and keeping the slope to be the inverse of the mass of the system.
Many errors could have taken place during this lab. For instance, if there were any masses that impacted the system that we did not consider when finding the total mass of the system, our slope of the graphs could have been more or less accurate than they already are. There were a few systematic errors when it came to the machines being used. Since we were deriving our acceleration as the slope of a velocity – time graph, if the graph had not been mechanically calculated properly, then the data points for all the graphs would have been inaccurate. Another, systematic error could have been from the magnets in lab 06, if the magnets had different strengths. Therefore, the change in the addition of more and less friction to the system could have not been direct. However, this value would, for the most part, not impact the equation, because we found through our experiment that added friction did not impact the acceleration or force. Systematic error could have also been found in the accuracy and precision of the scale when measuring the mass of the bobs. Random errors could have come from inaccuracy in highlighting the line to its greatest potential on the computer of the velocity – time graph. Another random error was if the procedures were not the same every time and maybe the person putting the bobs on the string had the string swaying during the test or had the string shorter or longer when applying the bobs. 
Some of the constraints we had with this experiment were that we were only doing the experiment on the Earth and only using Earth’s gravitational constant. We only had so many masses on the system, and therefore were only able to test for a small combination of masses. The density of the masses were all the same, instead of using different metals or plastics. Our group did not test the angle of the track, and therefore we were left out of that aspect of experimental knowledge. This specific constraint would have been dealt with if time wasn’t such a big constraint on the experiment, and we had more time to do more trials and tests.
The two mathematical models are consistent with Newton’s Second Law, because the slope of all of our graphs was the inverse of the mass of the system, and the force and acceleration were directly related. When doing the second part of lab 05, we found that the inverse was being taken of the mass of the system, and this is also related to this equation. The only factors that impacted the y-intercept in these conditions were the upward and downward tilt of the track, leaving friction was no impact on the force or acceleration’s y-intercept or slope.
