conclusion:
the purpose of the first lab was to develop a mathematical model for the system to relate its mass and acceleration. the purpose of the second lab was to understand each variable of the previous mathematical model more. 

the first experiment taught us that the mathematical model of the system is $a = m f_h + c$. this is seen by our equation for graph 1. the mass of the system is incorrect as our group accidentally used the wrong program to measure the acceleration. if we were to have collected our accelerations accurately, we would have seen the slope reach a number closer to the mass of the system in kilograms. the second experiment taught me that the model is only linear if the mass of the system remains constant. this is seen as the equation calculated from the data in table 2 is exponential. the third experiment illustrated that the intercept of the linear model is dependent on mostly the tilt of the track. this is seen as the models on the graphs of 3,4, and 5 have increasingly more negative intercepts as the tilt increases.
group#1 tested the level of tilt as well. only they tilted their track in the way that would make the cart in more of a downhill direction whereas ours made the track more uphill, thus their y-intercepts should be getting less negative as the tilt increases, which it does. their coefficients are very big because they did not remember to convert their masses into kilograms. if they had converted their masses to kilograms, they would have very similar masses of the system. 
group #4 tested the level of friction. they have a very similar mass of the system as our models seemed to show. from their data we learned that the friction of the system does not affect the y-intercept as greatly as the level of tilt does. 

there are a few possible errors that might have occurred. systematically their might have been an error that constantly made our mass of the system in our model slightly less than the actual mass of our system. a random error that might have been affecting our data i the level of air coming out of the track each time might not have been consistent. when more air comes out there is less friction and thus would be easier to accelerate. to reduce this random error, the solution would be to conduct more experiments as it would allow for the data to even itself out. 

 some constraints that might have limited our results is the number of trials conducted. when the trials are increased it is easier to see the respective relationships. if we had the time to test tilts of higher magnitude, we could more easily see its affect on the y-intercept. another constraint that might have limited our results is getting rid of friction completely. in our lab setting it is impossible to completely rid the system of friction. another constraint that might have affected it is the mass available to us. if we had more mass to test, the results would be more apparent. 

 our models of the data are consistent with newton’s second law. newton’s second law is that the force equals the mass times the acceleration. so by manipulating the equation,  mass equals acceleration over the force . this is seen in our mathematical model as the slope, acceleration over force, is very close to the mass of our system in kilograms.