conclusion:
The purpose of this lab was to find the relation between force, mass and acceleration. We also checked to see how the force of friction affected these values. The first experiment showed that there is a linear correlation between acceleration and force, while the second test showed that there was a power correlation between mass and acceleration. The third test showed that there was correlation between friction and acceleration as the acceleration of the cart decreased as the friction increased. The mathematical model for the first test was 2.8104x-0.0058. The 0.0058 was likely the value attributed to the friction of the cart reducing the total force. The x value would be 1/mass as the kg would need to cancel in order to turn newtons into m/s2. The second mathematical model was 0.3466x-0.3543. Again, the b value of the equation was likely the friction, while the m value would be s2/m to cancel newtons into kg. For the final 3 graphs, while the numbers were different, they represent that same thing as test 1 did. The only difference is that these tests used various values for friction, which can be seen as the b value for each model increases as the number of magnets causing friction increases.

Both tests from the other groups show that although the tilt/friction was changing the coefficient to the x stayed relatively unchanged and the only thing that varied was the b value. 

One major systematic error was that the magnets that were used to increase the force were not only relatively weak, but they were also hard to attach to the cart. This resulted in some tests where it seemed as thought the acceleration increased with friction, which is the opposite of the expected result. 
One limit is that we were not able to simulate a perfectly frictionless track which ended up showing up in our mathematical models. Also, we were unable to remove air resistance which would have also had an effect on our models. 
These models support Newton's Second Law because the hanging mass experiment showed that the force changed even through keeping the system's mass constant. The mass on the cart supported the law because it proved that as mass increased in the system, acceleration decreased. The differences are that our graphs and models have a B value which Newton's Second Law doesn't have. This is due to the fact that our experiments dealt with friction and air resistance.
