conclusion:


the purpose of this lab was to develop a model to demonstrate how a system accelerates under various conditions. the first involves changing the mass of a hanging weight while keeping the system mass constant, thereby changing the gravitational force on it as well as the acceleration. the second model involves changing the total mass of the system itself, which also results in a changing acceleration. the second part, lab 06, involved analyzing the models found from lab 05 and understanding how each variable and numerical value in the mathematical model was affected.

the mathematical models from lab 05 were determined by first changing the mass of the hanging weight by adding additional bobs with each consecutive run. this resulted in the model from figure 1c, where acceleration is affected by the force of gravity, f, multiplied by a factor of 3.0446 due to the mass of the system. therefore, the linear model illustrates a positive relationship between force applied and acceleration. the second model in lab 05 came from changing the mass of the system by adding weights onto the glider. this resulted in $a=0.1963 f - 1.68$ from figure 2c, which suggests that acceleration must decrease as mass increases for force to remain the same. the experiment in lab 06 was conducted by attaching an arbitrary set of magnets to the glider, while again keeping the system mass the same. this would cause a magnetic force between the glider and the air track, thus altering the system’s acceleration by an arbitrary amount. several liner models were found in lab 06 depending on the number of magnets applied, with more magnets causing the slope of the graph to be lower.

 

the model determined by our group (1) had a noticeably higher slope than the rest, but not significantly so. group 3 had the model closest to ours, with a$=2.9779 f - 0.0459$. another group, group 4, had the model $a=2.95 f - 0.037$. both of these models agree with ours, which suggests that there is a positive correlation between the force on a system and its acceleration. the coefficients subtracted represent outside forces acting on the system, which are understandably negative as they would detract from the system fully accelerating.

systematic error in the experiments could have resulted from improper alignment of the glider, causing it to be released either farther back or farther forward than necessary. this would respectively increase or decrease the slope of the model. another systematic error could result from imperfections of the air track. it was noticed by several group members that the air track we used seemed to have a “bump” that would slightly affect the data recorded. a third error arose from poorly attracting magnets in lab 06, which forced us to use pre-acquired data from the ta.

this experiment is constrained by the fact that the glider-air track interaction is not perfectly frictionless, and thus would lead to a small distortion in the models found. it is also constrained by the fact that the force from the hanging mass is dependent on gravity, which may not be the same in other conditions. this might greatly increase or decrease the system’s acceleration based on how much larger or smaller gravity was.

the linear model our group found, $a=3.0446 f - 0.088$ displays a positive relationship between the force of the hanging weight, f, and acceleration, a. the numerical value 3.0446 represents 1 over the mass of the system, derived from newton’s second law  when setting the equation equal to a. the second model, $a=0.1963 f - 1.68$, suggests a negative relationship between f and a. this is because as the mass of the system increases, acceleration must decrease to create an equivalent force.