discussion and conclusion: 

	with the completion of the first three labs, the primary interest was to determine the variable(s) that affect the period of a pendulum. the swings of the pendulum; however, were small (<20°). the three variables that were tested consisted of, mass (g), the length of the string (cm), and the angle of release (°). each variable was experimented with individually, all while keeping the other two variables constant throughout the trials. the first variable of interest was mass, where the length of the string and the angle of release were kept constant. through numerous trials, it can be concluded that the first independent variable, mass, has no true significance when regarding alterations to the period of the pendulum. evidence can support this claim, as the graph with error bars (figure 6) displays there was no direct correlation between the independent variable (mass), and the dependent variable (period of the pendulum). further evidence can be utilized, as the equivalency criterion with a 95% confidence level showed that the error bars overlap; therefore, strengthening the argument that mass did not have a significant impact on the pendulum of the swing. the second independent variable of interest was the length of the string, where the mass and the angle of release were held constant. after plausible evidence after the first experiment suggesting that the length of the string has an impact on the period of the pendulum, the independent variable was tested again with five trials; however, this time it was tested with a photogate. after successful completion of the experiment with the photogate, it was conclusive that the length of the string has an impact on the period of the pendulum. there was a positive correlation between the independent variable (length of the string) and the dependent variable (period of the pendulum). evidence of this positive correlation can be found from the graph from the first experiment (figure 2) and from the graph where the photogate was utilized (figure 7). error bars are present on the graph where the photogate was used; however, because the photogate has an extremely small range of uncertainty (+/-.001s), the error bars are difficult to see. with the aid of the photogate, the claims made in previous labs can be validated and it can be confidently determined that the length of the string has a direct correlation between the independent variable (length of the string) and the dependent variable (period of the pendulum). further evidence can be utilized, as the equivalency criterion with a 95% confidence level showed that the error bars do not overlap like that from the mass vs. time graph; therefore, strengthening the argument that the length of string does indeed have an impact on the period of the pendulum. the last independent variable of interest was the angle of release, where the mass and the length of the string were kept constant. by utilizing the graph depicting the correlation between the angle of release and period of pendulum (figure 3), it can be concluded that there is not correlation between the independent variable and the dependent variable. with the graph, there is very little variation in the values obtained and with the numerous trials conducted, a direct correlation between the angle of release and the period of the pendulum is non-existent. by using figure 5, the equivalency criterion with a 95% confidence level showed that the error bars do overlap like that from the mass vs. time graph; therefore, strengthening the argument that the angle of release does not have a significant impact on the period of the pendulum. after successfully testing each variable, it can be confidently concluded that the only independent variable that impacted the period of the pendulum was the length of the string. 

	the theoretical equation on earth for the period of a pendulum is represented as     $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$.  upon analyzing the variables within the equation, it can be observed that the only independent variable to be considered within the equation is the length of the string (l). therefore, by analyzing the equation, the equation can be used to support the final claim made after the completed experiments, where the only independent variable to have an impact on the period of the pendulum is the length of the string. the other variables within the equation are “t” and “g”, where “t” represents the period of the pendulum and “g” represents the force of gravity. after computing the data received from the photogate and plotting the data points in excel and obtaining a best fit curve, an equation representing the data was found. the acquired equation was very similar to the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum. our group’s equation was found to be $y=1.9901 x^{0.5142}$, where “y” is the period of the pendulum, and “x” is the length of the string. the theoretical equation is found to be 1.99x^5, and upon further analysis, it can be concluded that our equation is very similar, only with values that are slightly different. however, the best fit curve is not linear, but rather resembles that of a power curve, therefore further evidence that our equation acquired form excel is very similar to the theoretical equation. 

	although the utilization of the photogate greatly reduced error within the experiment, devices requiring human intervention, including a stopwatch and a ruler, all contributed to random and systematic error. some random errors that occur, include inaccuracies with the stopwatch, inaccuracies when determining the length of the string, inaccuracies when measuring the angle of release, and also inaccuracies when applying force upon release of the pendulum. random error can be reduced; however, as the photogate was very accurate with the measurement of the period of the pendulum. the other factors of human error can be reduced by implementing measurement tools that are more reliable than the human eye, for example, when using a ruler, the naked eye is the deciding factor, which in return can lead to random error. another method to decrease random error is to complete more trials, as the more data there is, the more likely the average of the data set will be accurate to the true value. although random error is very possible in this experiment, systematic error can also exist, as some of the tools used to measure, for example, the protractor, could be skewed and therefore the angle measurements could be skewed too high or too low. if the measuring tools are not properly set up or calibrated, it could lead to experimental values being too high or too low. to reduce systematic error, the most effective way would be to calibrate the measuring tool and ensure that the result is consistent and accurate before performing the experiment. 

	major constraints were also present within the experiment, including, the tension of the string, the allotted time for the experiment, and the local gravitational force in the lab room. the tension in the string could impact the period of the pendulum because the tension could differ depending on the amount of tension that was applied during the release of the pendulum. since the tension amount could differ with each drop due to random error, the period of the pendulum could be impacted. the allotted time for the experiment could have impacted the overall results of the experiment, because if more time was allowed, more trials could have been conducted, which would allow for more data points. to acquire more data points would enable the possibility to obtain more accurate results and, in the end, create a more accurate mathematical model. by increasing the trials, random error can be reduced, as more data points are taken and averaged to obtain a value closer to the true value. the last constraint, the local gravitational force in the lab room, could have had an impact on the period of the pendulum because depending on the force due to gravity, the period of the pendulum could be smaller or larger. if the local gravitational field is tending to be stronger, than the period of the pendulum will tend to be shorter.