discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this lab was to describe the behavior of a system through the development of mathematical models determined from a series of experiments, and to determine and understand what the constant values in the models represent. the lab addressed the research question “what variables have an impact on the acceleration of a system?”



the experiments conducted involved using the datastudio to record a velocity vs. time graph for each variable being tested (figures 4, 6 and 8). the datastudio was then used to determine the slope of the velocity vs. time graph, or the acceleration of the system. these values were collected and graphed against either the applied force of the system (figures 2, 5, 7, 9 and 10; experiments 1 and 3) or the total mass of the system (figure 3; experiment 2). by substituting in the axis labels for the x and y on the equation generated by excel, the mathematical models listed previously were determined.
the first experiment tested the research question by varying the hanging weight of mass two and its subsequent weight force on the system. the claim made from the recorded data was that the acceleration of the system increased with the applied force caused by the hanging mass. this claim is supported by the equation created from the graph of the applied force versus the acceleration of the system. this equation, shown in figure 2, says that $a=2.8058 f + 0.0163$ where a is the acceleration of the system and f is the applied force caused by the hanging mass. the positive slope of the graph shows the positive relationship between the applied force and the acceleration. the prediction and the claim made by the group were thus supported by the data recorded in this experiment. the error bars on this graph were nearly too small to be seen and the r2 value of the equation was 0.9988 for this set of data and its graph (figure 2). this, combined with the fact that the equivalence criterion determined that the values for applied force and acceleration can be claimed as different, shows that there is valid reason to claim that the model created from the data is a good representation of the affect of applied force on acceleration. 
the second experiment in lab 5 consisted of varying the mass of the system itself in order to test the research question. the data and graph for this experiment in table 4 and figure 3, respectively, show a negative correlation between the mass of the system and the acceleration of the system because the acceleration decreases as the mass increases. the mathematical model for this experiment, $a = 0.3925 m-0.322$ (where a is acceleration and m is mass added to the cart) has error bars that are too small to be seen and r2 is 0.957. while the r2 value for this experiment was not as large as the others performed for this lab, the equation matches the theoretical equation derived from newton’s 2nd law, which will be discussed below. the equivalence criterion also allowed for a claim to be made that each value of mass and acceleration was different from the others. 
the third experiment, performed in lab 6, tested the affect of variance of the hanging mass/applied force on the acceleration of the system for a series of three mass amounts on the system. figure 9 shows this data compiled into a single graph for comparison purposes. comparison of the three equations determined from this data leads to the conclusion that an increase in the applied force of the system causes an increase in the acceleration of the system. however, the more massive the system is, the lower the y-intercept of the graph will be. since the y-intercept for these equations represents the friction on the system, this is logical. the friction force increases with the mass on the system, but because it acts against the motion of the system, it is represented by a decreasing force. essentially, the friction force is getting closer to and more negative with the addition of mass to the cart-mass system. following the standard in the lab 6 document, the error bars were not included on the graph because they were so small, and the equivalency criterion once again indicate that it can be claimed that the applied force values and the acceleration values are different.
group 5 performed the same experiment during lab 6 as the one discussed above. the data for both group 5 and our group were very similar is  both the slope of the graphs and the y-intercepts decreased with additional mass added to the system. there are some discrepancies between the two sets of data, however, as the y-intercept values for our group’s data began as positives and decreased to a negative value, whereas the y-intercept values for group 5 were all negative. the group claimed that the y-intercept value of the graphs was friction, however our group claimed that the y-intercept was the friction force divided by the mass (which will be discussed in a future paragraph). the discrepancies between the two models and data sets could have been caused by the fact that group 5 had a different number of total magnets to test with and had a cart of a different mass. these differences could have shifted either set of data in either direction. while the group’s conclusions do not exactly match our own, there are enough similarities between the two that it is reasonable to say that the claims and data trends match.
group 2 belonged to the section of the class that varied the angle of the air track in order to test its affect on acceleration of the system. with no changes made to the values of the applied mass and the mass of the system, the angle of the track did influence the models derived from the data, particularly in the y-intercept. group 2 did not make a claim as to what the y-intercept is equal to, but it supports the conclusion made by our group that the value is equal to friction force divided by the mass. the effect of friction would be greater in a positively inclined plane than a negatively inclined plane, which is indicated by the negative and positive y-intercepts, respectively.
the theoretical model that relates to these experiments is that of newton’s 2nd law, $f = m a$, where σf represents the sum of the forces acting on a system, m is the mass of the system, and a is the acceleration of the system. this equation can be re-written as  , which can then be compared to the models determined from the data in these experiments. in the first experiment with data represented in figure 2, the model takes on the form $a = c1 f_a + c2$, where a is the acceleration, c1 and c2 are constants, and fa is the applied force of the hanging mass. it is because of the relationship between the modified equation for newton’s 2nd law and the model determined from the data of this experiment that led the group to its conclusions about c1 and c2. it was determined that c1 was equal to one divided by the mass of the system since the sum of the forces in the  equation was divided by the mass of the system. given the high r2 value for this mathematical model, the accurate curve fitting shows that there is significant support for our claim that $c1 =\frac{1}{m}$  similarly, the value of c2 was equal to the friction force on the system divided by the mass of the system. this is made even more evident by the enhanced version of the theoretical equation   is    . in this enhanced version of the theoretical model, it is a much more straightforward comparison to see the relationship between the c1 value and the second part of the equation is   , especially when considering that the c1 value represents the same as in the previous analysis of the mathematical model. additionally, with $c1 =\frac{1}{m}$ and $c2 =\frac{f_{ext}}{m}$  , the units for the equation match up. dimensional analysis is an alternative method for determining the values of these two constants that yields the same results.
in a hypothetical scenario using a heavy string instead of a light one and conducting the same experiments, the heavy string would cause an increase in the weight of the system. since there are no other forces acting in the vertical direction and the cart is not moving in the vertical direction, the normal force must also increase so that the acceleration is equal to 0 m/s2. this in turn causes the friction force to increase, and thus the c2 value representing  would change to represent the larger friction force as well. as explained earlier, this means it would become more negative since it is acting in the direction opposite of the motion. this hypothetical scenario would follow the pattern shown in figure 10, where an increase in the mass of a system would cause both a decrease in slope and the y-intercept () of the graph.
both random and systematic error were present during the experimentation. systematic error occurred due to the uncertainty of the data measurements. the datastudio had a relatively small error associated with it, but there was still an error of 0.001 m/s2 for the measurements associated with acceleration. additionally, the systematic error associated with distance measurements was 0.001 m, or 1 mm, and the triple-beam balance used measured only to 0.01 g. random error was introduced in the location of the cart on the track when different people would move it to the starting location. different people could have estimated the final significant figure of the distance differently, meaning some of the locations might have actually been different. additionally, by conducting the experiments on two different days, the humidity and air quality of the room were different, and thus also introduced random error into the experiment. the effect this would have on the data depends on whether the humidity increased or decreased in comparison to the other day.
the mathematical models determined in this experiment are only applicable under the conditions covered by this lab. the acceleration due to gravity must be 9.8 m/s2 for the numbers in the equations to apply, and the equations can only be generalized for the range of values for masses and applied forces tested in the experiment. even though it appears that the models will be applicable for any situation, the model cannot be assumed to support this idea. though newton’s 2nd law may suggest otherwise, the experiments conducted and their resulting mathematical models only apply for values that fall within the range of those tested in the experiment. this is made apparent if the hypothetical situation of performing the experiment on another planet was studied. the acceleration due to the applied force of the system would thus change in response to it. another constraint is the effect of air resistance of the room. the air resistance acted against the acceleration of the system, and this means that, as an external force, the value of c2 would change if air resistance changed.
this series of experiments tested the variables that would affect the acceleration of a cart-mass system in a controlled environment. the theoretical equation derived from newtons 2nd law indicates that the mass of the system and the applied force on the system affect the acceleration of the system, and the data collected supports this model.