discussion and conclusion

the research question being investigated was “what impacts the period of a pendulum?” the first experiment (with results being displayed in table 1, table 4, and figure 1) tested five different lengths of string from which the bob hung to create a pendulum. all factors were kept the same except the length of the string so that it could be determined if the length of the string was causing a change in the length of the period. from this experiment we got results that support the claim that the length of the string directly impacted the length of the period of the pendulum. looking at the graph it can be seen that there’s a strong positive slope meaning the longer string caused the period to be longer. the vertical error bars on the graph are too small to be seen.

	the second experiment performed was to test whether the mass of the pendulum affected the length of the period of the pendulum. five different masses were tested with all other factors remaining the same so it could be determined if the mass impacted the period of the pendulum. the results for this experiment can be seen in table 2, table 5, and figure 2. this experiment determined that the mass of the pendulum does not affect the length of the period of the pendulum as the length of each period fell between approximately 1 and 1.5 seconds with no consistent increase or decrease. by looking at figure 2 the error bars can be seen and it’s clear that none of the points are more than one standard deviation apart. this means it can be stated with confidence that the mass doesn’t affect the length of the period of a pendulum.

	the last experiment investigated whether or not the angle of pull upwards from which the pendulum was released impacted the length of the period of the pendulum. five different angles between ten and thirty degrees were tested. the results for this experiment can be seen in table 3, table 6, and figure 3. by looking at figure 3 the error bars show that each point was never more than one standard deviation apart. this means there’s no impact on the length of the period of the pendulum, thus it can be concluded that the mass doesn’t affect the period of the pendulum. 

	the independent variables that showed no impact on the period of the pendulum were mass and the angle of pull upwards. the error bars on the graphs prove this true because they show that they are never more than one standard deviation apart. therefore we can conclude that these two variables have no impact on the length of the period of the pendulum. the independent variable of the length of string did show a relationship meaning it has an impact on the length of the period of the pendulum. more specifically, it displayed a power relationship. figure 4 shows the three equations that we considered before we decided it was a power relationship. this decision was made because the r squared value was 0.998 which was the closest to 1. 

	there was room for some errors to occur in this experiment. one random error that occurred was the reaction time to starting and stopping the timer. to try and prepare for this random error we had two people (and used the same two people for every trial of every experiment) time three periods for each trial and took the average of the two timers. then we divided the time by three to get the average of one period. we also tested each factor three times and averaged the time of the three trials. we took this precaution because we knew sometimes the timer might get started or stopped too early or late and wanted to be sure to try to have a high accuracy. another random error that could have occurred is the person letting the pendulum go differently each time. if he let it go a little more to the left or right each time it could affect our abilities to tell when three full periods had happened and stop the timer at the right time. a possible systematic error could be within the timers. if they aren’t calibrated to perform a second correctly due to age or poor manufacturing. there’s also a possibility the measuring tape didn’t measure the length of the string accurately due to it being old and stretched out.

	one constraint for this experiment included that it was hard to accurately time each period with just human reaction time pressing a timer when the period started and ended. more accurate timing should show every trial in the experiments testing mass and angle to have the exact same time for every trial. then the slope on those graphs could be exactly zero with a straight horizontal line. 

	in conclusion, the three factors tested were mass, length of string, and angle of pull upwards before release. the only factor that was found to make an impact was the length of the string based on the results and the graphs created from them. when a mathematical relationship was developed, the length of the string and the length of one period of the pendulum were determined to have a power relationship.