discussion & conclusion:

a. the purpose of the lab was to investigate several possible factors that would impact the period of a pendulum. from the beginning, it was decided to research the impact of three main factors. these factors included weight on the string, length of the string, as well as the angle from which the pendulum was released. 

b. the three factors had differing results, and helped the group conclude about the factors affecting the pendulum’s period. to test the string length factor, the angle of release and weight on string were kept constant while the length of string was varied across all the trials. the claim was made that the string length was directly relate to the period because increased length led to increased period. to test the angle of release, the weight on string and string length were kept constant while the angle was varied. the claim was made that the angle was also related to the period of the pendulum. however, this factor would be further researched later. to test the weight on the string, the string length and angle of release were kept constant while the weight on the string was varied. the claim made was that the weight on the string has no effect on the period.

c. looking at the graphs there is a high positive correlation for the length of string versus period graph. it is noticed that there is a horizontal line for the graph of weight on string versus period which means there is no correlation. the theoretical mathematical model determined through entering the data into excel and forming a trendline turned out to be $y=0.3576 x^{0.3761}$. the r-squared value came out to 0.9914, and this displays the high correlation between length of string and the period of the pendulum. following review of the data and observing the motion of the pendulum over the course of the entire lab, the angle of release and weight on string proved to have little to no affect on the period. this can be backed up to the lower r-squared values acquired from the trendlines created on the other two graphs.

d. there were some sources of error that had impacted the data, to include the inability to achieve exact measurements with the measuring tools provided in the lab room. also, it proved difficult to get consistent period measurements with the use of the stopwatches that had some degree of uncertainty. additionally, there was inconsistency while releasing the pendulum each time and affected the times recorded. to improve the error, using more precise instruments of measurement and possibly using a machine to release the pendulum and time at once would be beneficial. 

e. in the lab there were few constraints that had to be dealt with. for example, there was only a specific amount of mass and string that could be placed on the pendulum. also, there was no consideration of any rotation on the pendulum during the lab which may limit the results to some degree.