discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this lab was to determine which factors of mass, string length, and drop angle affect the period of a pendulum for small swings. the first experiment addressed this question by keeping a constant string length of 56 cm and constant drop angle of 20 degrees from vertical while varying mass between 50 g and 250 g and plotting the average period of the pendulum in seconds versus the mass in grams (figure 1). since the data points were well within two standard deviations of one another, we can claim with 95% confidence that there is no correlation between the mass in grams of a pendulum and period in seconds for masses between 50 and 250 g. the second experiment was designed to determine whether drop angle of a pendulum affects its period. this was done by keeping a constant string length of 56 cm and a constant mass of 150 g, while varying drop angle between 10 and 30 degrees from vertical. a plot of period in seconds vs. drop angle in degrees was created (figure 2). once again, the error bars on this graph overlapped within two standard deviations, and therefore it can be stated with 95% confidence that drop angle in degrees does not affect the period of a pendulum in seconds for drop angles between 10 and 30 degrees from vertical. the third experiment tested if string/pendulum length in cm affects the period in seconds. we used a constant drop angle of 20 degrees and constant mass of 150 grams while using varying string lengths between 18.45 and 170.85 cm to construct a period vs. string length graph (figure 3). the graph indicates a positive power-curve relationship between period and string length of a pendulum. since the error bars do not overlap within two standard deviations, we can claim with a 95% confidence interval that there is a positive, non-linear correlation between the string length of a pendulum in cm and its period in seconds for lengths between 18.45 cm and 170.85 cm. from the results of these experiments we claim with 95% confidence that mass (m) and drop angle (d) do not affect the period of a pendulum, while string length (l) has a positive, non-linear effect on period for the values 50 g less than m less than 250 g, 10o less than d less than 30o, 18.45 cm less than l less than 170.85 cm. 

one potential source of error in our experiments that did not use the photogate to record the period is random error from human reaction time when hand-timing the swings. this random error was reduced in the experiment by recording several measurements and averaging them. we could have reduced this error further by continuously running trials and averaging the data to get the normal distribution of this data, but the number of trials we ran proved to be sufficient. 

one constraint of the experiments that somewhat limits the generalizability of our results is that the drop angle was kept below 30 degrees, meaning the claims are only valid for “small swings” of a pendulum. it is known that drop angles larger than this actually do have a correlation to period of a pendulum, but this data tends to be random due to jerking of the pendulum that can occur at these angles.