
Discussion and Conclusion:
In this lab, the patterns between the independent and dependent are to be observed to see if there is any correlation between the two. In this particular experiment, three variables are changed to see how they affect the period of a pendulum. These variables include the length of the string, the mass, and the angle of release. By changing any one of these variables we could see a significant change in the length of the period of the pendulum or no change at all. By changing one of these variables and keeping the others constant, the effect of the one particular variable can be seen. This then gives the result or a positive correlation or no correlation which would allow the hypothesis to be accepted or rejected. Before the length of string trial, it was predicted that the length of string would affect the period(make it longer). Based on the data collected and the graphed data (figure 1) it is clear that string length has an impact on length of period. This is evident because the graph has a positive slope and conveys that times increases as the length of string does. The same goes for the angle of release, its graph (figure 2) also has a positive slope which concludes that there is a positive correlation between the release angle and length of period. When the mass trial was carried out the plotted data (figure 3) showed that there was not a correlation since the line of best fit on the graph had little to no change to it, in other words the slope was relatively unchanged.
The mathematical model of a pendulum is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{v}}$. This pendulum model assumes no friction and a massless string which would mean that the period of the pendulum would remain constant over time. Looking at the collected data (figure 4-6) shows that the period remained relatively constant over the course of the trials. This shows that it followed the mathematical model of the pendulum. The values of the pendulum do fluctuate a little from trial to trial which is due to human error involved in the setup and execution of the test.
In his lab there were a few errors that could have occured and they were mostly random errors. For example, the stopwatches that were used in part of that testing created a lot of random error because of the user input involved with the machines. In order to attempt to correct this error the averages of the values were taken. In order to increase the accuracy of the results a photogate was used which has an accuracy of .001 of a second. Another source of error comes from the releasing of the pendulum. This occurs because the angle isn't exactly the same each time since the only measuring tool was a protractor. A machine that could control this drop would make the test more accurate. Any systematic errors that could have occured would not have influenced the test results since everything was dependent on the length of the period(time) and its correlation to the variable being tested. The overall test was substantial enough to conclude or disprove the correlation between variables. However, if these tests were to be done on a larger scale the errors discussed in the experiment could have a greater effect on the results. 

