conclusion:
one purpose of this lab was to develop an understanding of what independent variables affect the acceleration of a pulley system and develop mathematical models to show the relationship between the independent and dependent variable. another purpose to develop an understanding of the numbers in the mathematical models and how it is changed when a variable is changed.

in lab 05, changing the mass of the system resulted in a change in acceleration that is represented by the mathematical model. using the shape of the graph a trendline with the equation and correlation coefficient was fitted to the data. for the graph of mass of the system vs the acceleration of the system, the equation that best fit was an exponential equation because the relationship between mass of the system and the acceleration was exponential. the power number is -.999. this represents how much the acceleration decreased as the mass increased. the 327.87 represents the initial mass from the data given. for the equations of the applied force vs acceleration, the same process was followed, but the equation that best fit was a linear mathematical model. the slope represents the change in the acceleration as applied force is increased and the y intercept represents the acceleration of the system when the applied force was zero. for the equation found in lab 06, the slope is steeper and there is a higher y intercept value as well. this is due to the change in the inclination of the track. a downward slope gives a higher y intercept value because there is a higher acceleration with no applied force and there is a higher slope because the acceleration changes more dramatically with more applied force.



	as we found in our lab this group (group) found that as the force changes, the mathematical model of acceleration of the system changes. as the magnetic force was increased between the track and the sled was increased, the slope, or the change in acceleration, increased and the y value, or the acceleration with no opposing forces decreased. in the second picture, the group (group 6) found that as the incline increased, the acceleration increased. and the slope and y value have both increased, which is consistent with our results.

due to the set up of the experiments, there are some systematic errors. one of them is the air track because ideally there should be no acceleration when there is no applied force, but according to the equations found in the experiments, there was a slight acceleration when the applied force was zero. this error could be minimized by using a track where the friction is known and could be accounted for, or a somehow frictionless track. another error could be assuming that there was no friction in the pulley or on the track. if friction was present, this would cause a lower acceleration and therefore a lower change in acceleration. this could be lowered by having a smoother track or sled. these are systematic errors because they both cause a shift in the data.

	a constraint that may affect the generalizability of the results is the slight acceleration of the system due to the air flow from the air track. the mathematical model shows that even when the applied force is zero, there is a slight acceleration of the system. this is to be expected in lab 06 when the track was at a downward incline, but ideally, there shouldn’t have been an acceleration in lab 05 because there was no applied force to make the system accelerate. another constraint is the slight friction between the track and the sled. because the air did not make the track completely frictionless, there was some friction between the track and the sled. this would be considered a systematic error, because it would make the acceleration consistently slower than it would be if there was no friction.

our results are consistent with newton’s second law, where the net force equals the mass times the acceleration. when we tested mass of the system versus the acceleration, we found an inversely proportionate relationship with our mathematical model, which is consistent with the equation. as mass of the system was increased, acceleration decreased. when we tested the applied force vs acceleration, we found a positive correlation between the variables in our mathematical model, which was also consistent with newton’s second law. as the applied force was increased, the acceleration was increased.