discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of these two labs was to develop the skills necessary to create mathematical models that represent the behavior of a physical system under varying conditions and to develop an understanding of these numbers, variables, and their meaning.

during each of the three experiments our team developed an experiment that would let us control the conditions under which a metal cart on a simulated frictionless air track was pulled down the track via a weighted rope passed over a motion detecting pulley. looking at the results collected from graph #1 and graph #3 which can be modeled in a linear fit a general model for the motion of the car can be developed. keeping in mind that $f=m a$ acceleration could be obtained by taking $a=\frac{f}{m}$ or f * (1/m). this matches the line equation derived from the graphical data we obtained. 1/m is portrayed as the value to which the x variable, or force, is multiplied. the last constant in the equation is a correction factor that takes into account additional accelerations in the system, which in graph 3 can be shown to vary with the angle of the track, confirming that this correction factor involves the acceleration due to the downward force  of gravity which plays a varying role in the carts motion depending on its angle relative to horizontal.
the group represented above(group 4) chose the same experiment set as our group, testing for the effects of the air tracks angle relative to horizontal. their data can be easily compared to the data we created and plotted in graph #3 and the mathematical models we developed. this groups data shows the same mass constant for their given mass of the system and a varying acceleration correction based on the changing angle of the track over the coure of their experiments.
in the next group(group 6), pictured below, a great representation of the mathametical model can be easily seen in the acceleration correction constant in the different groups mathametical models. in our group and the other group pictured above, the acceleration correction factor can be seen to increase with increasing angle of the track pointing downwards in line with the motion path of the cart. this means that the acceleration of the cart due to gravity is aiding the pulling force and generating a higher overall acceleration. in the group pictured below which angled their track upwards in the line of motion of the cart, so that gravity was working against the motion of the cart due to the pulling force, the opposite effect can be seen in the model which has gravitational correction factors that increase in negative magnitude as the slope of the track increases towards the sensor and pulling force, resulting in an overall lower acceleration per given force applied.
after comparing the mathematical models generated in lab #6 to lab #5 it can be clearly seen that in lab #5 there was some other force acting on the cart as it traveled along the track because there is a negative acceleration correction factor in the mathematical model. assuming the track was completely horizontal, this external force could have been in the form of friction in the track, friction in the wheel of the motion detector, or air resistance from the carts movement down the track. the other option if these factors are ignored is that there was slight horizontal misalignment in the track leading to additional positive or negative acceleration on the cart due to the partial forces of gravity. in the future these alignment errors could be designed for by leveling the track as precisely as possible before testing and further design and improvements could also be put into friction reduction methods if desired.

one major constraint, however very slight, is that these calculations and results are only valid at the given altitude at which they were performed. if the tests were to be considered extremely precise, large variations in altitude could affect the gravitational acceleration constant and lead to different constants being generated to describe the mathematical motion of the cart in these experiments.

as described in detail in answer b) the results generated as a result of the mathematical model developed are consistent with what could be predicted by rearranging newtons second law into $a = \frac{f}{m}$. this rearrangement can be clearly seen in the linear models developed and this can be further verified by taking the inverse of the mass of the system being tested and coming up with a number very close to the constant used in the mathematical models.