conclusion:

the purpose of these labs was to, first, develop mathematical models that describe the behavior of a real system (lab 05) and then to develop an understanding for the purpose of every variable and numerical value included in said model.

the first mathematical model that we determined (in figure 1) was a simple linear relationship between the force applied and the acceleration of the car that was determined by using the equation forming function in google spreadsheets and thus took the form of a $y=m x+b$ equation ($3.09 f_a + 4.94= a$.) the second mathematical model resulted from measuring the relationship between the mass of the car and its acceleration and entering the data into the equation forming function in google spreadsheets produced the mathematical model of $2.7e^{-2.95}e-{03} m1=a$, an equation in the form of a power equation (cx^p.) the third mathematical model was determined by repeating the second experiment from lab 05 with except with more friction and all of the weights as seen in table 3 not table 2 (these values differ because we had a different sled than we did in lab 05 and it had magnets attached making its mass differ slightly.) the equation that resulted from inputting the data seen in figure 3 into the google spreadsheets equation forming function was in the form of a power equation (just like the equation from lab 05 experiment 2 that this experiment was based on (cx^p)), however both of the numerical values in this equation were smaller in absolute value than those in the model from lab 05 experiment 2. the model for experiment 3 (or lab 06 experiment 1) is this $2.1e^{-2.41}e{-03} m1 =a$.


 one source of random error in the experiment is the balance used to weigh the bobs used for the force applied and to weigh the car (i consider this random because the source of the error is from the people calibrating and interpreting the results, rather than the balance itself.) this source of error could be rectified by using a digital balance scale with a known error. doing this would both reduce the error associated with the balance in general and eliminate the random error associated with a person calibrating the balance and interpreting the results displayed by the balance. one source of systematic error in this experiment could be found in an issue that we had noticed during the experiment. that issue being that as the car neared the end of the track the bobs that were being used to apply force to the car would hit the ground (this is systematic because they would hit the ground at the same point every time, making the error that this would cause consistent.) this error could be rectified by shortening the string that connects the bobs to the car slightly so that the bobs no longer contact the ground when the car is near the end of the track.


 one constraint in this experiment that could limit the generalizability of its results is that this experiment was done under the constant gravitational acceleration of 9.8m/s^2  found on earth. because the results of this experiment were obtained under this condition we cannot be certain that these results will still hold true if the condition is changed. to rectify this, the experiment would need to be repeated in a place with a gravitational acceleration that differs from the 9.8m/s^2 seen on earth. another constraint in this experiment that could limit the generalizability of its results is that the amount of friction that was added to the system in the lab 06 experiment is unknown. the fact that this is unknown means that the magnitude of the effect of friction on acceleration is unknown, and that means that in a real world situation where the friction is known the acceleration that occurs on the car in this situation cannot be predicted using only the results of our experiments.
our two experimental mathematical models are consistent with newton's second law ($f= m a$.)  the model from our first experiment ($3.09 f_a+ 4.94= a$) shows conformity to newton’s second law in that the force applied being multiplied by 3.09 (equivalent to being divided by a very small mass in kg (keep in mind that we measured in grams)) that represents a mass and the friction in junction with the incline of the track and then adding a constant that is representative on the constant mass of the car and the constant friction between it and the track as well as the incline of the track. and this works to give acceleration. the model from our second lab 05 experiment ($2.7e^{-2.95}e{-03} m1=a$) shows conformity to newton’s second law in that the mass of one is multiplied by a constant that is representative of both the constant friction and the incline of the tract, and then multiplying that by a second constant that is also representative of the incline of the track and the constant friction between the car and the track to get the acceleration of the system.