cnclusion:
	the purpose of lab 05 was to create a mathematical model that describes the behavior of the systems we observed.  the purpose of lab 06 was to develop an understanding of all variable and numerical values in the model. 

  	there are two mathematical models from lab 05, one is acceleration v. hanging mass and the other is acceleration v. mass of the cart. in lab 05 the y-intercept represent all the external forces acting on the system. the slope represents the 1/mass because of newton’s law. in our experiment we are solving for acceleration so acceleration equals force times 1/mass. in the graph of acceleration v. hanging mass, the y-intercept is .0275 and 1/mass is .0271. in lab 06, the y-intercept .02520 and 1/mass is .027. in lab 06, the y-intercept represents external forces action on the object, in our case this would be the angle of elevation. 


these experiments followed different procedures but have very similar conclusions. when the angle of increase in the opposite direction of motion, acceleration decreases for the applied force. both the angle of release and the magnets affect the acceleration. as you can see from the board, their slopes are very similar to ours, whoever their y-intercepts are very different. this difference accounts for the variance in the acceleration. with this information in mind, we can conclude that our experiments were very similar and proved the same results. 

	some random errors in the experiment are measuring the mass of the objects incorrectly and the bobbers hanging from the string could be swinging before the air track was started. all of these will affect the data in different ways. if the mass of the object was measured incorrectly it would affect our value of slope. since slope is 1/mass if mass was incorrect our slope would be inaccurate. if the bobbers were swinging it could jerk the system forward because of the motion of the bobbers. if this happened, our acceleration would be greater than the actual value. some systematic errors that could of occurred are inaccuracies in the program measuring acceleration. the program could consistently overestimate or underestimate the slope of the cart, causing an increase or decrease in the acceleration and shifting the standard deviation of our data. 

 	some constraints from our experiments our the number of trails, number of bobbers and the length of the string. we only had eight trials and that is a very small survey size. if we could increase our survey size then we could say our data is more accurate. we only had eight bobbers in our experiment, if we had more bobbers we could have more trials and increase the generalization of our results. if the length of the string was increased it gives us a wider range and increases the generalization of our data. 

 	our mathematical models are consistent with newton's second law because we take into account all of the forces acting on the system. our y-intercept is representative of the any external forces acting on the object and the slope is 1/mass.