conclusion:
what impacts the period of a pendulum?

	experiment i showed there was a positive correlation between string length and period of a pendulum. after introducing the error bars from lab 02 onto the graph for experiment i (figure 1.3), it can be said with certainty that this correlation is accurate because none of the error bars overlapped. this confirms the hypothesis and proved the theory in table 1.1 is  the period of a pendulum is affected by the string length, and it is a direct relation. this remains true for all conditions.

	experiment ii showed there was a positive correlation between angle of release and period of a pendulum. after introducing the error bars from lab 02 onto the graph for experiment ii (figure 2.3), this correlation is no longer acceptable because the error bars overlap. this denies both the hypothesis and theory in table 2.1 is  the period of a pendulum is not affected by angle of release. this remains true for small strings and varies more with larger swings.

	experiment iii showed there was no correlation between mass and period of a pendulum. therefore, the error bars were not needed to prove this, as can be seen in figure 3.3. this confirms the hypothesis and theory in table 3.1 is  there is no relationship between mass and period. this remains true in all conditions.

	the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is is   $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. 2 is a constant, pi is a constant, and g is a constant as long as you stay on one planet because it is the acceleration due to gravity. therefore, l is the only variable, which is string length. this confirms the results found in the experiments. rearranging the model and changing the units to cm instead of meters, $t=0.10035 l$. the mathematical formula found through experimentation was $t=0.1498488 l$ as shown in figure 5.2, which is not exactly accurate. since there is no m in the model for mass, the mass would have no effect on the period, as shown in table 3.2 and figure 3.3, where the period’s variability does not have a correlation to the mass. there also is no theta in the model, meaning angle of release would not influence period either, which is shown through the overlapping error bars on figure 2.3. 

	the first random error is the human error of being unable to perfectly start and stop a timer exactly when the pendulum starts and stops. this is a random error that was reduced by having three people record the time and then average those values for each trial. to further reduce this random error, one could record how long it takes for multiple cycles and then divide by the number of cycles. another error was trusting that each piece of the mass was exactly how much it said it was instead of re-massing each time we changed the mass with the balance. this would be a systematic error that could be reduced by re-massing each time we change the mass with the balance. another error was that the protractor moved relative to the string. this is a random error which could be reduced by having a way to fix the protractor to the beam the string is hanging from. another source of error was a slight guess at the length of the string since the tape measure didn’t have smaller intervals than millimeter, so we had to guess the second decimal. this is a random error that was reduced by judging if it was larger or smaller than a quarter, half, three quarters, or a whole and by how much.

	the first constraint is that the string was a fixed length. this means we could not test any string lengths longer than the length of the string. if we could, we would have more different data points to test, and it could help our mathematical model become more accurate. the second constraint is that we only have a 250 g mass with removable 20 g pieces. this means we can not test any mass between the 20 g intervals or above the max mass of 250 g. if we could, it wouldn’t make a difference because mass does not affect period of a pendulum, but we could have more data to support that. the last constraint is that the period does have some effects with the angle of release at large angles, so we must stick to smaller angles, and it is impossible to test any angle above 90o because then the mass would drop straight down until the string gets to its stretched position instead of following the path of the circle. if we could test larger angles accurately, it would be more clear to see how the angle of release does not impact the period of a pendulum.