discussion and conclusion

	the research question being asked in this lab was to determine how the length of the pendulum would impact the period of the pendulum. the first experiment was to test pendulum length vs the period. we hypothesized that as the length would increase, so would the period of the pendulum. after conducting the experiment, we can conclude that our claim is true. when referring to the graph, we can see that the independent and dependent variables have a direct correlation, meaning as the length increased, so would the period of the pendulum. the controls for this experiment were a constant release angle (20 degrees) and a constant weight (130 grams) of the pendulum.

 the second experiment was to test angle of release vs the period. we hypothesized that as the angle of release was increased, the period of the pendulum would increase. after conducting the experiment, we can conclude that our claim for this part of the experiment is correct. when referring to the graph above, we can see that there is a direct correlation for angle of release vs period of the pendulum. the controls for this experiment are a constant length (30.48 centimeters) and a constant weight of the pendulum (130 grams). 

the third experiment was to test the weight of the pendulum vs the period. we hypothesized that as the weight of the pendulum increased, the period would also increase. after conducting the experiment, we can conclude that our original claim was wrong, and that weight of a pendulum has little to no effect on the period of the pendulum. the controls for this experiment were a constant release angle and a constant length of the pendulum.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is equal to is   2*pi*sqrt (length/gravity). when discussing the length of the pendulum, our data fits very well with the mathematical equation. the difference is that the model discussed follows a power curve whilst the equation we found follows a linear curve. if we were to estimate the period given a larger length of the pendulum, the estimated period from our equation would be very different from the actual time when using the mathematical model. 

for discussing the release angle of the pendulum, i believe that this value isn’t as important as the length of the pendulum, and the weight of the pendulum is even less important considering it plays little to no role in impacting the period of the pendulum. the release angle of the pendulum impacts the period of the pendulum, but when tested the difference in the period of the period of the pendulum when compared to the length of the pendulum is enough to declare the length as the most important factor that impacts the period of the pendulum.

when conducting the experiment, we were able to find some errors that would have impacted our results. one of them is the human error for dropping the pendulum with a minimal “push” when the pendulum was let go. this would impact the speed of the pendulum as if it were at a different release angle and thus would have impacted our data slightly. we attempted to reduce this by having the same person drop the pendulum to make the error more systematic rather than random. another source of error would come from the differences in timing when using a stopwatch. this is random error and the only way to decrease this would be to use a laser timer, meaning there would be minimal error compared to the human error form using a stopwatch the time a period of the pendulum.

the constraints of the experiment would be the length of the pendulum and the weight of the pendulum. for the length, we only tested up to 85 centimeters or .85 meters. if we had a larger pendulum, we could have tested how multiple meters would impact the period of the pendulum and this would have probably given us an equation closer to the mathematical model that is for the actual period of the pendulum. now for the weight of the pendulum, if we had more weight and if we were able to test for a larger range for the weight of the pendulum, we might have been able to find some sort of relationship between weight and the period of the pendulum.