conclusion:

In this lab, we tried different way on how the acceleration of a system changes. Our research question was “what causes the acceleration of the system to increase?”. In this lab, we performed two different labs, the first lab was testing the acceleration of the system when different masses were added. Second lab was testing the acceleration with friction included.
The first, we tested the mass and the string length, and we got a mathematical model of , the second part, we used a hanging mass and string and we got . The first Mathematical model had a positive correlation and the second mathematical model had a negative correlation. The second Lab was testing the acceleration with magnet involved. The main reason of the magnet was to check if friction can influence the acceleration of the system. We did three mathematical model; the board above has all the data. we got a linear regression and they were between 0.9995 to 0.9998. The graph we got from both labs, the line went through all the dot which assume had less error in our data.

Group three did the same experiment that we did expect for they used applied force what I will be assuming to the bobbers but not conclude, I will assume that the applied force was applied another way. Going through what they had on their board, they a negative correlation which means that when they no magnet and no friction. They got a higher acceleration and based on the number of magnets that was added, the acceleration decreases. The second group we got did not have their number on their board, so I will call them group 9. Group 9 used the slope of track. Their claim was the acceleration will increase with a negative slope of the track.  


While doing this lab, we did not have a lot of error because our data from both lab 5 and lab 6 has almost a hundred percentage. One place I think that error might have happen will probably from the track or the car itself.  I came to the if maybe if we had cleaned the car and track after the previous lab had used it that could be a way to reduce it. Also, I think that where we started from might be a problem to where we had some error. We started .9m instead of 1m that could be an error.
When Doing this lab, I though that air resistance might have an influence on the acceleration. The acceleration of the car since it is being pulled by the mass of the bobber, the bobber has an influence on the acceleration, my assumption was if we had a fan that interact with the bobber. The fan will point in different direction of the car.

The two experiment models are consistent with our mathematical models because we said that as the mass increases, the acceleration decrease, that means that the mass is inversely proportion to the acceleration of the object. When we included friction into newton’s second law, matter what the mass of the object is, and the acceleration of the car is, they will both decrease.
