discussion and conclusion:

lab 05 and lab 06 were dedicated to analyzing the affect different factors have on the acceleration of a system and create mathematical models for each factor. factors examined include how the mass of the hanging block, the mass of system, and how friction affected the behavior of a real system. after analyzing each factor data points were entered into excel file to calculate data tables and graphs that represent the trends of each factor. a trend line with an equation and r^2 value was then calculated for each set of data points. in graphs 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4 and, 0.5 it can be seen how all different factors effect the behavior of a system, their r^2 values and each mathematical model (i.e. the equation below the graphs). the accuracy of each numerical value in the mathematical model should be very accurate because the r^2 values are all very close to 1 which increases the accuracy of the values in each equation. 

in lab 05 the acceleration of the system due to applied force with varied hanging mass was analyzed. to conduct the experiment and analyze the affect varied hanging masses have on the acceleration of the system we made sure the total mass of the system stays the same. this involved moving bobbers from the car on the tract to the hanging mass, thus increasing the weight of the hanging mass while keeping the total mass of the system the same. the control variables were the mass of the system and gravity while the dependent variable was the acceleration of the system and the independent variable was the applied force due to the changing mass. analyzing graph 0.1 and data table 0.1 the relationship between acceleration and the weight of hanging mass it can be seen they have a positive correlation (the graph has a linear plot with a positive slope). therefore, it can be determined that when the applied force increases, the overall acceleration of the system will increase. the mathematical model we determined was $a = 3.3461 {f_{applied}} – 0.0277$. we are very confident in the values in the mathematical model because the r^2 value is 0.9995. the mathematical model shows that as the applied force (iv) increases the acceleration of the system also increases. any uncertainty in this model come from the uncertainty of the sensors reading velocity and the uncertainty of the mass, which was determined by choosing a standard deviation that was half of the smallest reading on the scale. other factors that we though might affect the mathematical model was if the track had any slope to it which would increase the acceleration and change the mathematical model. graph 0.1 shows the error bars which account for the random and systematic error that could have occurred in this experiment. however, the error bars are so small that they can not be seen on the graph and they do not affect the values calculated for the mathematical model. 

additionally, in lab 05 how the mass of the system affected the acceleration of the system was analyzed. this was determined by keeping the weight of the hanging mass the same but changing the total mass of the system. this data showed that there is a negative correlation between the mass of the system and acceleration. this means that as the mass of the system decreases, the acceleration of the system will increase. to determine this negative correlation the data in data table 0.2 was graphed and the line of best fit was determined (graph 0.2). the slope of this line proved that there was a negative correlation between the mass of the system and the acceleration of the system. the mathematical model for this experiment is $a = 0.0406 m^{-1.115}$.  the mathematical model shows that the mass of a system influences the acceleration of a system in a negative manner and that there is a power relationship between the acceleration of the system and the mass of the system. the values in mathematical model for this experiment are less accurate than the previous mathematical model but still accurate as the r^2 value is 0.9827. this r^2 value shows that the data points and line of best fit may have some error in them, this error can be attributed to random and systematic errors within the experiment. these errors were considered on graph 0.2 where error bars can be seen. while not all error bars are visible the ones that are show that there was a large range for error in this experiment than with calculating a mathematical model in first experiment. this leads us to be less certain of this mathematical model than prior mathematical models. errors that could have occurred in this experiment could be improper measurements of masses or an improper measurement of acceleration form the machine. in the future to reduce possible error measurements of mass will be taken with more care in hopes of reducing error. 

in lab 06 how friction affects the system was assessed by testing the acceleration of the system. to do this we analyzed what happened when the friction increased and saw whether the overall acceleration of the system decreased or increased with friction. this experiment tested the effect the mass of the system had on the coefficients in the equation $a = c1 f + c2$, where c1 is the value of 1/m and c2 is the unknown force acting on the cart. through this experiment we determined that as the mass of the system increases, the coefficient c1 decreases because the mass gets larger and the value of 1/m gets smaller. we also found that the coefficient c2 increases in the positive direction because the increase in mass results in a larger normal force and larger friction force between the cart and the airtrack. additionally, when the mass of the system decreases, the opposite effect occurs and c1 increases and c2 decreases. graph 0.4 and graph 0.5 show this relationship when comparing how as the friction increases the acceleration decreases. our mathematical model for these experiments were (in order of increasing weight) is 

$y = 3.5469 x – 0.0369$ 	r^2 is 0.9988

$y = 2.7673 x – 0.0458$ 	r^2 is 0.9985

$y = 2.277 x – 0.0476$		r^2 is 0.9996

due to the r^2 values in our mathematical models we are very confident in the data collected and that it supports the claim that as friction increases the overall acceleration of the system will decrease. graphs 0.3, 0.4, and 0.5 show that the graph od friction vs. acceleration produce a linear plat with a negative slope. with the high r^2 values and the fact that the trendlines pass through most of the data points our confidence in these mathematical models is very high. group 6 conducted the same experiment as us but have different values in their equations. this can most likely be attributed to them using different magnets with different strengths and weights which would have affected their system differently than our magnets effected ours. even though the numbers are different when looking at whether numerical values are increasing or decreasing it can be seen that group sixes values increasing when our calculated values increase and decrease when our calculated values decrease thus their mathematical model supports our claims that as the friction increases, the overall acceleration of the system will decrease. 

	in lab 06 group 3 preformed an experiment where the mass of the total system was held at a constant weight, but the tilt of the tract was increased. there data shows that as the tilt in the tract increases at the end where the pully is the second coefficient of the equation increases by a significant amount. this makes sense because the applied force is now working against gravity which is trying to pull the cart down the track. compared to the experiment            .                                                                                                                   (group 3) 

we ran in lab 06 their tested independent variable had a significantly larger impact on their equation than out independent variable had on ours. 						

	while all the mathematical models in this lab have some error, it was accounted for in the error bars present on all the graphs. additionally, to reduce some error we were very careful in when taking our measurements and if we thought we messed something up by releasing the cart too soon or stopping the cart too soon we just redid the procedure to ensure that all measurements were as accurate and true as we could get them. 

	the two experimental mathematical models calculated in this experiment are consistent with newtons second law that, .  newtons second law of motion mathematically states that the acceleration of an object produced by a net force is directly proportional to the sum of forces acting on the object and inversely proportional to the mass of the object. this relationship can be seen in the two mathematical models calculated in lab 05 & 06.