conclusion:
our main research question is how does the length of a string impact the period of a pendulum. the first experiment addressed how length, angle, and mass affected the period of the pendulum and which one would be more effective for our research question. the claim was made that the length, angle, and mass did affect the period of the pendulum. the conditions were still valid but we did multiple periods instead of one so our data would be off from other groups data. the second experiment gave us a set mass and length to see if there would be any inconsistencies in the data. the claim was made that length would affect the period of the pendulum. the conditions were valid because the data was constant and concise after having multiple trials with the same length, angle, and mass. again, we timed for multiple periods instead of one period. the third experiment let us make more accurate and concise data with the photogate. the discussion after our third experiment in class helped see how our data matched with other groups data. our claim was that length had an affect on the period of the pendulum. our claim was valid because all the groups did the same thing of how length affected the period of the pendulum and ended up with a similar answer. unlike the other two labs, we did one period of a pendulum rather than multiple periods so our overall data may be inconsistent. 

	the theoretical mathematical model is 2 pi times the square root of x divided by gravity. the solution should be close to 1.99x to the .5 power. our data of did not fit with this model but was relatively close with other groups theoretical mathematical model based on our third lab graph. our x value is what made it different from the correct solution and made the equation wrong for our data. a systematic error was that we were doing different amounts of periods in each lab instead of one. we didn’t realize that we only needed one period until before the third lab. another systematic error would be moving slightly when putting the string at a certain angle and where the string was placed one the post. we could’ve reduced this error by have a set placement of where our string was and re-measuring the angle before we released the pendulum. a random error would’ve been picking really low numbers and high numbers in the third lab because it made it harder for us to recognize the power line and error bars. some constraints were not using the photogate for all the labs and having not a set length, angle, or mass. it was hard for us to keep a consistent mass and angle when the 2nd lab had a set length and mass.