discussion and conclusion

a. the research question that was being investigated though out the past three labs were what affected the period of the pendulum. there were three factors that were being investigated is  the length of the string, the mass of the object and the angle of release. 



b. 	the first experiment addressed the research question because it changed only one of the three factors while leaving the other two factors constant. each factor was tested while the other two factors were kept constant. looking at table 1, we saw that the length of the string affected the period. since the vertical error bars do not overlap with other data points, we can conclude that each period of time is indeed different for each different length of string. we saw a trend in our data points which were the longer the string, the longer the period. the conditions for this claim to be valid are that the mass of the object and the angles of release were constant which they were. looking at table 2, we see that the angle of release does not affect the period. since the vertical error bars do overlap with the other data points, we can conclude that each data point is about the same for the different angles of release. the conditions for this claim to be valid are that the mass of the object and the length of string is constant. looking at table 3, we see that the mass of the object does not affect he period. because the vertical error bars do overlap with the other data points, we can conclude that each data point is about same within the standard deviation. this mean that each data point remains the same with different masses. the conditions for this claim to be valid are that angle of release and the length of string are constant.

	after looking at tables 1,2 and 3, we can conclude that the length does affect the period of the pendulum. now, this second experiment relates to the validity of our answer to the research question. looking at table 4, we see that there is variability in our data even after all three of the factors are kept constant. in a perfect world, that line in table 4 would be a perfect horizontal line but it is not because of the variety of times our group gets from the stopwatches. using data in table 4, we calculated the standard deviation between the times our group got for the period with all the factors constant. this standard deviation value was used to determine the vertical error bars discussed in experiment one and in tables 1, 2 and 3. the second experiment was purely used to determine the variability in our data so that our answer can be valid for the research question.

	the third experiment was a second trial of if length truly does affect the period. a photogate will be used this time which is more accurate in measuring the period than us using a stopwatch. this will help make sure that we have an accurate answer for the research question. after measuring the period with the photogate, we still ended up with the period being affected by the length of string. this conditions for this claim to be valid is that mass and length of the string is kept constant. an equation for period of the pendulum was given also in the third experiment. this is helpful because it can used to see if our data is correlated to the equation. first, we plotted our data of length vs period, then we used a line of best fit for the data which would give us an equation for the trend of our data. the equation of our data can be seen in tables 5 and 6.



c. the theoretical period of the pendulum is determined by the following equation is  $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$  where t is the period, l is length and g is the force of gravity. the force of gravity is a constant 9.8 m/s^2. looking at table 5 and 6 we see that our trend line equation does not match the theoretical equation for the period. unfortunately, our data did not match the equation of for the period due to a systemic error which will be described in part d. using group 3’s data we saw that their equation was $t=2.0871 l^{0.4839}$ which is similar to the theoretical equation of the period which is what our data was supposed to show. we see that the theoretical model does not include mass or angle of release for the period pendulum which would make sense of why mass or angle of release didn’t affect the period. this is shown in tables 2 and 3. with the given theoretical equation for the period, we see that the longer the length, the longer the period which is shown in table 1.



d. we had a systematic error for the third experiment. after repeating the experiment twice, we were left with the same equation which were different than the theoretical model for the period. in order to reduce the chance of the systematic error in the future, we could have reset the program that was in charge of taking the period of the pendulum. this would account for any glitches in excel or in the photogate that could have affected our data. a possible random error could be present when the period was tracked by a stopwatch. there could be a randomness of when the stopwatch was started and stopped. a way our group tried to reduce this random error was to have all three of us time the period and take the average of them to find period for that trial. this help reduce any random error one stopwatch had. 



e. a possible constraint in this experiment could be using stopwatches for the first experiment. using a stopwatch could cause a random error that wasn’t considered. also changing from stopwatches to the photogate made our experiments inconsistence. this adds another variable that needs to be accounted for which is changing from stopwatches to a photogate. this experiment was also done in classroom setting and not in a laboratory so necessary equipment could be missing to perform our experiment accurately. also, the systematic error in part d, makes our group hesitance to generalize that the length of the string affects the period.