conclusion:
the purpose of the lab was to develop mathematical models to describe the behavior of our system and how the setting of your lab can contribute to your findings and mathematical model. we did three experiments within lab 05 and lab 06 to determine the mathematical models previously shown. we tested how the mass of a system would affect the acceleration in certain circumstances. we then proceeded to graph the data we recorded and with those graphs we were able to determine the mathematical models in the $a = c1 f + c2$ form from the trendline graphed, as well as the r2 value which was always approximately 1. 

other groups did similar experiments to ours and we compared our results. group 2’s data challenges our data in some ways such as the values of their c1 differs from ours, however this doesn’t impact the confidence in our data. their findings may be different due to the position of their m1 as well as the weight of their system. group 3’s did a similar experiment to ours, however they tested their system down a declined plane and up an incline as well whereas we tested ours on a level surface. the inclined plane tests help to understand the effects of the force of friction. their iv had a larger impact on the numerical values compared to our groups.

random and systematic errors that could have been present in our experiment could be the slope of the air track used, weight of the system, and the slope of the data. these errors could be reduced by making sure that the air track is absolutely level using levels. we could also have measured the weight of the system multiple times in order to ensure correct values. in addition, we could instead of selecting a small portion of the position vs time graph to determine the slope of the function we could select multiple portions of the graph in order to ensure a more accurate value. along with random and systematic errors there were constraints within our experiment we couldn’t help. we were only able to use the resources provided which could affect the results just due to lack of quality resources. we were also on a limited time basis which could lead to inaccurate results as well.

our mathematical models are consistent with newton’s 2nd law because it is in the correct format of $a = c1 f + c2$ which is a variation of newton’s 2nd law. in addition to that our r2 value which would have to be at the value of one is 0.995-0.999 in each of our experiments which validates our data furthermore.