discussion and conclusion:

what impacts the period of a pendulum?

	this lab was focused on determining what factors can affect the period of a pendulum through three main experiments as determined by the group.  the first experiment investigated the effect of string length, eventually claiming that the length of the string connected to a pendulum has a positive relationship with its period.  the longer the string, the longer the period.  this claim was supported by the data collected (shown in table 2) that has a trendline with a positive slope when plotted on a graph (graph 1).  this positive correlation is only valid when the release angle is kept constant during each trial.

	the second experiment determined the relevance of a pendulum’s mass on its period, and the resulting data showed that there was no correlation.  the data in table 4 was plotted onto graph 2, and the trendline calculated from the data points had a slope of nearly 0 despite the changes in mass for each set of trials.  this lack of correlation is valid when the length of the string attached to the pendulum and its release angle are kept constant.

	the final experiment was designed to investigate the result of changing a pendulum’s release angle as measured from the vertical.  this resulted in a claim that the release angle holds a positive relationship with a pendulum’s period.  the data recorded in table 6 supports this claim because of the trendline formed by the data in graph 3.  the best-fit-line has a positive slope, indicating that as the release angle (measured from the vertical) is increased, the pendulum’s period increases as well.  this claim holds true when the pendulum’s string length is kept constant.

	the theoretical mathematical model for a pendulum’s period is stated to be $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ where l is the pendulum length and g is the acceleration due to gravity.  the data may fit the theoretical equation in an accurate manner; however, the data was fitted with a linear trendline rather than a polynomial trendline.  if additional trials were carried out with additional lengths of string and release angles, then it is very likely that the current trendline shape would become evident, and the data could be more accurately compared to the theoretical model.  in graphs 1 and 3, the data appears to form a straight line with a positive slope, whereas graph 2 shows little to no change over the multiple trials.

	the potential errors in this lab were both random and systematic in nature.  the inaccuracies in measuring the mass procedure’s period times are systematic, since a person with a timer is almost certainly going to be too slow in reading the accurate time every time.  the measurements of the string lengths and the release angles likely experienced random errors since we had no way to exactly measure either value.  the records had to be made with very precise approximations instead.  these errors were reduced as much as possible during the course of the experiments through double-checking of all measurements as well as coordination on timing and pendulum release.  they could be reduced even further through the use of a mechanical device capable of releasing the pendulum and starting the timer immediately to get a more accurate record of the period.  measurement devices with increased precision would help eliminate the random error in the string length and release angle.

	the biggest constraint in the experiment that limits the results’ generalizability is the relatively limited number of data points.  the lack of different data points taken and recorded resulted in inaccurate mathematical models being used that varied drastically from the theoretical model.  running additional trials with additional values for each experiment would better prove the relationships with the ivs and the dv.