discussion and conclusions 

 the purpose of lab 05 was to see how mathematical models are created based on the behavior of the system. in table 3 and graph 1 we could see that the linear equation was made based on the positive correlation created between the force applied and the acceleration. in table 4 and graph 2 we saw that the mass of the system versus the acceleration was a negative power function which indicated that as the mass of the system increases the secant line of the graph becomes less negative meaning acceleration levels off. in lab 06 we could see that that other numbers in the mathematical model are created by the data collected through the experiment and evaluated how the equation was manipulated through the increased angle. we determined that the slope remained relatively constant, but the b value increased. 
 our group achieved these mathematical models by conducting the experiment and taking the trendline in each graph create in excel. in graph 1 and 3 there is a linear relationship with $a= m f_a +b$ and in graph 2 was the format $a= b  m^{slope}$. the slope was calculated through the numbers achieved through the acceleration sensor and the b value was determined based off the initial acceleration. the mathematical models are created completely based off the graph because the slope in graph 1 and 3 are positive and the slope in graph 2 is negative.
                     

above are two different groups mathematical models for lab 06. both groups had the same style concusion with what the variables represent and also for the numerical values. these back up our claim that the y value is acceleration and the x value is the force. the first picture is from group 6 in our section and the second is a picture from wednesday phys 1051l due to lack of a secondary picture.
 random error could have occurred when calculating the mass of the system and the force applied. systematic error could have occurred based on the friction of the track and the distance the cart was released. our team could have minimized the error by making sure the cart started exactly at the same spot each time and by measuring the mass of the system and bobbers more than once.
 constraints during the experiment that may have limited the generalizability of our results are that we had to rush during lab 06 due to a lack of understanding. with more time added our results would have been more accurate.
 during each of our mathematical models you can see the correlation to newtons second law. based on our calculated acceleration and the mass of the system you can see the force applied to the system that was a constant value. by equation manipulation we can see the relationship between both experiments and newtons second law.