conclusion:


these three labs explored the question: “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?” lab 1 focused on testing three different factors that could potentially influence the period length. it found that the period of a pendulum is affected by the length of the string, but it is not affected by the weight or the angle of release. as the length of the string increases, the length of the period also increases. the graphs of both the weight of the pendulum and the angle of release have flat trendlines, while the graph for length of string has a positive trendline. all the data fits these trendlines closely. 

lab 2 focused on determining measurement uncertainty in the previous sets of data. the results of this experiment served to solidify our confidence in our measurements because the percent error was 6.4%. therefore, the range of uncertainty is 0.064 sec. for the graphs of weight and angle, the two standard deviations on either end include all the values. this means that the true value may be included inside of this range. because all the values fall within the confidence interval, we are very confident that the lines and curves accurately describe the relationship between the independent and dependent variable. 

lab 3 focused on recognizing and eliminating potential sources of systematic and random error in the previous set of experiments as well as formulating a mathematical model for the period length of a pendulum. after completing this lab, we found that based on the graph, the model has a nonlinear relationship, which is different than what we had previously determined. the curve that best fits the data is a power curve.

the variable that impacts the period of the pendulum is the length of the pendulum. the shorter the length is, the shorter the period of the pendulum is, and the longer the length is, the longer the period of the pendulum would be. this claim holds true whenever the force due to gravity is constant, and the weight of the pendulum is also constant. 

we are very confident in our measurements because the photogate has a very low uncertainty in it, of only 0.001. therefore, our numbers are more precise, which makes our data better. the mathematical model was determined by using excel to find the best line/curve of fit. this directly led to our claim that the mathematical model is a power relationship. our r^2 value is 0.9998 which makes us very confident within in our mathematical model. if we changed the force of gravity, this would change the length of the period. for example, if we took the pendulum to the moon, which has a lower force of gravity, the period would be longer. the theoretical equation for the period $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ based of off this equation a lower force of gravity would in fact create a longer period of the pendulum.

more tests could be done with more lengths of string. with the longer string lengths, the power function of the graph could be seen better. there would also be a marking the weight where the length of string should be measured. this would increase the accuracy of the string length measurement. the assumed gravitational force is 9.81m/s^2 which could be slightly off. this would cause slight error in the calculations. if the string stretches, then energy could be lost, and the time could change. if the string is checked for elasticity, then the answer could be more accurate.

if the length of the string is 0.5m and gravity is 9.8m/s^2, the time is 1.419s. with our found formula and using 50cm, the time is 1.418s. since these times are only off by 0.001s, the graph matches the formula for a pendulum swinging.