conclusion:

the purpose of the lab is to find what affect the friction, mass and applied force has on the acceleration of a mass. 

the first experiment we did was testing the applied force with relation to the acceleration of the resting mass. in table 3, you can see that we ran 8 trials and we documented uncertainty, applied force, and acceleration of the system. as the applied force increases throughout the trials, the acceleration increases as well, which led us to believe that there is a correlation between the applied force and acceleration of the system. that relationship is further proven when the numbers were plugged into excel and put into a graph (table 4), which gave us an equation of                     $y=2.7048 x - 0.0141$. this equation fits our line basically perfectly with an r squared value of one which determines how well the line fits the data. when you plug in acceleration and applied force into the equation you get, $f=2.7048 a - 0.011$. this equation is just $f = m a$ which is newton’s second formula where 2.7048 is the mass of the system. the 0.0141 isn’t in that formula but it is just chalked up to errors in experimentation which will be talked about later in this report. 

the second experiment we tested was the changing of the resting mass’s affect on the acceleration. in table 5, the testing trials are listed. we ran 6 trials that showed as you increase the resting mass of the glider, the acceleration decreased. again, that data was plugged into excel and made into a graph which is table 6 and that gave us the equation of $y = 0.3628 x-0.904$. this equates to the equation of $f = m a$ as well but in a different way. the equation with the tested factors plugged in is $a = 3.628 m g-0.904$. which is basically $a =\frac{f}{m g}$. 

the third and final experiment was testing the friction of the cart on the track and seeing the affect it has on acceleration. we carried out the same procedure as we did for the first experiment except, we ran three smaller experiments and changed the friction forces in each of those so we could see the affect it has on our mathematical model we calculate using excel. the first experiment is documented in tables 7 and 8. we ran this experiment with no friction on the car and just changed to see the affect on the acceleration with no friction and got the equation from excel of $y = 2.6262 x + 0.007$ where y is applied force and x is acceleration and it matches the formula of $f=m a$ which is talked about above. the second time we ran it with one set of magnets and the only other affect that had was also a small increase in the mass of the system. we did the same thing as the first one and you can see the work in tables 9 and 10 but this time, we got an equation of $y = 2.2588 x - 0.0048$. we ran it yet again and our work is in tables 11 and 12 for the final test and we got an equation of $y = 1.9328 x – 0.0102$. where y in both equations is force and x in both equations is accelerations and they both match the $f= m a$ formula. as you can see in the number multiplied by a decreased. meaning that the force that is applied is decreasing as well as a decrease in the overall acceleration. the second number decreased which shows error. 

included below are two pictures of white boards from group 4 and group 3, respectively. the results of both of these groups make me more confident in the data i found as well as more understanding of the numbers. as you can see from group 4, we ran the same test as them and got similar results. our first number when down around the same rate as theirs and the second number was a little off but that can be contributed to using different materials and different sets of equipment. group 3, however, did a completely different experiment from me where they tested how angle affects the acceleration of the weight and that data goes to show that there are numerous ways that acceleration can be affected. 
there was an amount of error in the experiment. the systemic errors could include not zeroing the scale before measuring the masses of all the bobbers and cart, a problem with the application we used on the computer, air resistance, or our track could have been angled. all of these would have caused systematic error which would set all of our data off. the way we could fix this is to make sure the track is level, the scale is zeroed right, and the application is working right. the only thing we could do about air resistance is go in a vacuum. 

the random error could have been that we measured an individual bobber’s mass wrong   or the rope could have had knots or frays in it that could cause the string to not be as tight which would lead to the mass not being pulled the same way every time. we tried to reduce errors in measuring the bobbers by doing them all separately and making sure the scale is zeroed and having the same person measure them, so they do the same thing every time and not cause errors by having different people weigh them with different methods. the errors in the string could be fixed by making sure the string is free of tears, knots, or frays. 

the constraints on the experiment is that we did not have a vacuum chamber so air resistance could have been a factor in the final product. another constraint is that gravity is not constant at every position on earth so the applied force may not be correct because we used the average force of gravity. the last constraint is that we tested the magnetics or friction with magnets and the magnets were drawn to the cart so if we used plastic carts that could’ve helped the friction 

the two experimental mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law because the first equation was plan $f = m a$ which is exactly what his equation says. the second equation fits because it is $a =\frac{m}{f}$. this fit because when you use algebra to solve for a you get that equation solving for a from newton’s second law. the third, fourth, and fifth equation we got was just another copy of the first equation i talked about above.