conclusion:
the general purpose of this lab was to be able to develop mathematical models for a real-life system in the lab. this lab also aimed to show the relationship between applied forces in different parts of the system and how that applied force effected the system. lab 06 was also meant to show a more in depth understanding of the mathematical model’s constants and to assist in understanding how they are affected. the first two experiments conducted in lab 05 were meant to show the relationship between forces within a system. to elaborate more specifically, we wanted to analyze the relationship when the hanging mass was increased and how it affected acceleration, all while keeping the cart mass constant. we also tried the opposite, keeping the pulley mass the same, while changing the mass on the cart. we used the experiment in lab 06 to determine how constant values of the mathematical model were determined. those mathematical models have two constant components involved with them. the slope of each model represents the acceleration per amount of mass in the system. depending on what case is being tested (i.e. if the cart mass is changing or if the pulley is), the equation is generally in a $y =m x+b$ format. as stated before, m is the slope which relates mass and acceleration, while b is the outside forces on the system. b was determined in lab 06 by changing the force of friction or of the slope of the set-up. mx is the force of the system acting within a gravitational field. these all produce a force graph. 
this first board supports our findings because they had the same test as we did, where they were testing the strips with friction. they had similar trend with their slopes where they were almost identical, like how our model had near identical slopes. the only thing that changed in both ours and theirs were the constants at the end, meaning that there was error in the amount of resistant forces. 
 this team also supports both our conclusion, as well as the previous team’s conclusion because it shows the same exact outcomes as before, however, with a different physical resistant force, this case being the incline of the track. they had the same thing happen to them, similar slopes, different constants for b.

random errors could have occurred if the cart was released with force for each test cause the acceleration to become higher because of the amount of extra force within the system. random errors could have also come from measuring out the mass and not plotting any of the graphs correctly when doing data analysis.

the main constraint that limits the generalizing of this is the fact that we cannot test this without air resistance to see if there is truly only a relationship between m and a. 

the two mathematical models show a correlation between the mass of a certain part of a system, and the acceleration of the system as a whole. if the mass of the pulley is increased, the overall force of the system increases, meaning that the acceleration of the cart will have to increase because there is nothing to counter act it. at the same time, if the cart’s mass increases, then the overall acceleration of the system must decrease to account for the increase amount of mass with the same pulling force. this is seen clearly in the first two graphs that show how the increase in one part of the system’s mass causes an increase/decrease to the amount of acceleration within the system. however, it does show that within the system when the mass of the system is increase for a constant force, the acceleration must decrease to account for it.