discussions and conclusions



the purpose of lab 5 was to determine the relationship between force and acceleration and force and mass and then determine the mathematical model from each of the graphs.  while the purpose of lab 6 was to use what we found in lab 5 to test another variable that was given to do you by the instructor and determine if there is a relationship between that independent variable and force and then determine the mathematical model from the graphs that were obtained.

the first experimient that we had done was in lab 5 was force vs. acceleration, we determined that there was a relationship between the two variables which led us to the mathematical model (2.783)*x - (.0118) since this was determined from the excel graphs.  the physical meaning was the bobbers described the force as a physical meaning.  the accelerations physical meaning was we had a fan that we would turn on to move the cart forward and then right before it would hit the end, we would stop the fan.  as you can see in the graphs though there was a strong positive correlation between the force and acceleration with a linear shaped graph.  the second experimient that we did in lab 5 was mass vs. acceleration and we also determined in this experimient that there was a relationship between the two variables.  the mathematical model that was determined from the excel graph was (.2887)*x^-(1.212) which would be a higher slope than the first graph but also had a lower y-intercept.  the physical meaning of mass was that we added weight to the cart during every new test to determine the relationship while the physical meaning for acceleration stayed the same which was just the fan that we used to acceleration the vehicle and then stopping it right before it hit the end of the track.  in the graph it is noticeable that there is a half parabola shape on the graph.  it would indicate that if we continued the experimient tests it would slowly start evening out till it became nearly constant.



this is the graphs from the other teams and i compared this to the mathematical models from the models that our team got.  they were very similar in relationship which meant that our mathematical model was very accurate compared to the other ones.  as seen in the graph two groups got 2.91f -.074 and 2.91f - .087 which are very similar and are only different because of the y intercept which is 0.013 off.  both these mathematical models relate to our mathematical model since our mathematical model was very similar to these.  

in lab 5 there were a few errors that could have come up that might have caused either some systematic errors or random errors that would have affected the end output of the lab.  the random error that could have happened was the time period from when we started the fan to where we stopped it.  since the fan turning off and on was not automated then there could have been random error in trying to stop the fan before it hits the barrier at the end.  depending on the reaction time of the person hitting the fan switch than the relationships could vary even if it is on a smaller level.  another error that could have occurred was the machines not being completely calibrated correctly.  since we did not calibrate the computer and the tools we used before doing the experimient than we could have had systematic error where the results would still give the correct correlation but they would not be in the correct spots on the graph and it would give an incorrect mathematical relationship.  in lab 6, we would have the same errors as we did in the lab 5 plus there could have been error in raising the ramp with the weights.  the ramp could have been raised unevenly to where one side would be heavier than the other side and this would cause an uneven distribution of weights and most likely affect the results.  this would be systematic error if the distrubtion of the weights stayed the same the whole time but they most likely would not and so it would cause random error and this would greatly affect the relationships on the graph and very greatly affect the mathematical relationships.  those are a few errors that could affect the force and motion lab.

a constraint that could have generalized the results was using a person to turn off the fan instead of making the fan automated.  if it was done by the computer, it would get rid of the variable of reaction time since depending on the person it might be very fast or very slow.  this is the only constraint that i could think of that would affect the experimient.

there are many ways that the two mathematical models that we obtained are consistent with newton’s second law.  the two mathematical models that we obtained were (2.783)*x - (.0118) and (.2887)*x^-(1.212) and these models show $f=ma$.  the m is the first number which would be the slope and then the acceleration would be x which is the variable while the y-intercept is just where the variable starts on the graph.