discussion/conclusion



	in this experiment, we investigated what variables had an effect on the period of the pendulum. we tested length, angle, and mass and observed and what types of effect they had on the period of the pendulum. 

	in our investigation, we were able to conclude that the length of the string from which the pendulum was suspended did have an effect on the period of the pendulum. after graphing our data, we found a strong positive correlation between length and the period. our line of best fit was in the positive direction, indicating such a strong positive correlation. all of our data points also lie on the line of best fit, which strengthens the argument that there is such a positive correlation. when applying the error bars to our graphs, we found that the overlap was not significant. this showed us that the difference in our data was statistically significant, further showing evidence for our conclusion. 

	in our investigation, we were able to conclude that the angle from which the pendulum is suspended does not have any significant impact on the period of the pendulum. after graphing our data, we found no strong positive correlation between the angle and the period. our line of best fit was in the negative direction, indicating a negative relationship between the angle and the period. after applying the error bars to our graph, there was more overlap in the horizontal direction, indicating that any difference in the data was not statistically significant. this further supported our final conclusion. 

	in our experiment, we were able to conclude that the mass of the pendulum did not have an effect on the period of the pendulum. after graphing our data, we found no strong positive correlation between the mass and the period. although, our line best fit had a positive slop, we found that most of our data points did not lie on the line of best fit, leading us to the conclusion that there was not a strong correlation between mass and the period. after applying the error bars to our graph, there was significant overlap both horizontally and vertically, indicating that any difference in the data was no statistically significant. this further supported our final conclusion that mass does not have an effect on the period of the pendulum. 

	from using the photogate technology, we were able to find a mathematical model that represents the relationship between the length and the period. our model was $y=3.9904 x^{0.77}$. the mathematical dependence was linear and a line with a slight curve could have been drawn that passes through nearly all of our data points. in comparison with other lab groups, our equation was relatively close to two other lab groups. our equation is consistent with those within our lab group. the mathematical model does support our theoretical model that the length of the string does impact the period of the pendulum. 

	in the analysis of our data we did find a random error within our data while testing for the effect of angle on time. we were able to deduce this because there was an outlier within our data that did not lie on the line of best fit. this random error can further be reduced by repeating the trials and finding an average data point. this will increase the accuracy of our data and reduce the chance for random error. throughout our experiment we did experience a systematic error. our pendulum would sometimes hit the bar from which it was suspended which would result in less accurate results. to reduce this systematic error, we would have to find a way to perform the experiment without hitting the bar.  in the future, we could place the pendulum further from the bar to reduce the chance for any systematic error. 

	certain constraints could have had an impact on the generalizability of the results. one such constraint could have been the uncertainty within our measuring tools. measuring tape, protractors, and scales all have a level of uncertainty associated with them. this level of uncertainty could have had an impact on the generalizability of our results. this constraint could be rectified by using more precise and accurate measuring tools with very limited uncertainty. another constrain that could have had an impact on the generalizability of our results could have been the time in which we were given to conduct our experiment. given more time, we could have conducted more trials find an averaged data. this would have made our data more accurate and reliable and would have reduced the chances for any random errors.