discussion and conclusion

	the purpose for this lab was to determine whether hanging mass, cart mass, or magnetism influence acceleration and determine what kind of relationships relate the variable to acceleration.  the first experiment, the effect of hanging mass,  showed that, when the mass of the system is constant, but the mass hanging off the rail increased, therefore causing the mass of the cart to decrease, the relationship was linear. the second experiment, the effect of cart mass while keeping the hanging mass constant, showed that the relationship was inversely proportional to the acceleration. this makes sense by using newton’s second law, $f=ma$ showing as mass goes up, acceleration must go down to keep the force constant. in the last experiment, the effect of magnetism on acceleration, the relationship was also linear. for graph 1a, we had the x-axis represent the hanging mass; for graph 2a, we had the x-axis represent the cart mass; for graph 3a, we had the x-axis represent the hanging mass. for each graph, the y-axis was the acceleration, which allowed us to see the direct correlation between each other.



this table combines all the groups data.

this table combines all the groups data.	because our group was the only group that tested the effects of magnetism, our instructor also tested this as well. her graph is graph 3a and shows what our testing should have shown. the slope is roughly the same due to the gradient being the same, which is the system’s mass. the deviation is likely caused by error, discussed later. for the first two experiments, every group tested the same variables. the picture on the left shows the combination of most groups data, with different constraints. the picture helps us confirm our relationships, because, even though the masses differed group to group, the models all showed the same results; that is model one, in our case tables and graph 1, were all linear, and model 2, in our case tables and graph 1, were all inversely proportional. this helps us show that we are confident in our results. another picture, shown down to the right, shows the correlation of forward tilt on acceleration. this helps our understanding of what the numerical values in our models represent because this group’s tests involved gravity, because the rail was not always level.



group 1’s evidence of tilt and acceleration

group 1’s evidence of tilt and acceleration	some possible random errors that might have been present is the randomness of the force from the nearly frictionless track. this was random because the motor might not have been outputting a constant amount of air throughout each hole, causing some places to have less air than others, making the acceleration not constant. another random error possible was the force that the cart left our hand at. this was a possible random error because the person who released the cart could have accidentally pushed the cart back, or forward, causing a jump in the graph. a possible systematic error could have been the reading from the rotary motion sensor. this was a systematic error because the error would have been the same for each test but would have caused deviation in the true value. another systematic error could have come from the weight of the bobbers, string, and magnets. this would have deviated the whole data away from the true value because the masses of these were constant, but for instance the string would have increased the mass slightly as it went off the rail, causing an increase in acceleration. the string was systematic because the same amount of string went off the rail causing each value to deviate the same. 

	one constraint to this experiment that limited the generalizability of the results was the constraint of having limited mass, and not having multiple surfaces to test this on. having increased numbers of mass to use would have allowed us to see whether our equations would work for increased mass or if they are only for a small range of mass. having multiple surfaces would have also allowed us to determine whether this lab testing applied only to nearly frictionless surfaces, or any surface. lastly, our two models are consistent with newton’s second law because, as shown in graph 2a, as the mass increases, the acceleration decreases. our other model also demonstrated this because as the hanging mass increased, the acceleration increases. this is because there is an increased force, which due to proportionality, the acceleration also needs to increase because the mass is constant.