conclusion:
what factors influence the period of a pendulum?

the weight of the pendulum addressed the question in a way to prove that it has no effect on the period of the pendulum. we initially believed that it would however no correlation was proven. referring to our graph, the points produced had no valid slope or general trend line. they were actually quite random due to human error. the length of the string addressed the question in a way to prove our original hypothesis. we stated that if we alter the length of the string, then it will display changes in the period and we were correct. looking back at the length vs time graph, it shows a general upward trend; if you increase the length of the string then the period of the pendulum will increase as well. this displays a positive correlation. the angle at which the pendulum dropped addressed the question in a way to also prove our original hypothesis. we originally stated that if the angle at which the pendulum is released changes, then the period of the pendulum will increase accordingly. looking back at the angle vs time graph, it shows an upward trend as well proving our point that if you increase the angle at which the pendulum is dropped, then the period of the pendulum will increase as well. this showed a positive correlation as well. 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. t being time, sqrt being square root, l being length of the string, and g being gravitational acceleration. the data fits our model because everything is constant besides the length of the string. as you increase the number for the length then the period of the pendulum will increase. for example if i plug in 70cm into the equation the time ends up being 1.67s and our average time for that trial was 1.62s. very close indeed. as you notice mass of the pendulum and angle are not included in this equation. for mass, this is because mass does not have an effect on period anyway, and a mathematical model only applies to small angles of small degrees. once the angle begins to become large, a larger more complex model is needed to solve for the period.

random errors include incorrect timing with the stopwatches, inconsistent angles when dropped, incorrect measurements of the string, the string could have slid and changed our measurements, sometimes when dropped the string “jumped” or “stuttered” as falling. these all were random, usually one time errors that could be fixed. these could have been reduced by using careful measuring tools such as a protractor and a meter stick to make sure that our variables that needed to stay constant actually stayed constant. for time measurements we did take the average of 3 to 4 people’s stopwatch times and then conducted multiple trials of that. this gave a better, more reliable time for our data.

some constraints could have been the accuracy and precision of the stopwatches(and the people using them), the time given in each lab period could have led to rushed results.