discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of this lab was to learn more about mathematical models. it was split into two labs. the first lab focused on developing mathematical models based on a real system. the second lab focused on understanding what the variables in the mathematical model were and what the numerical values in the model represented. 

	in the first lab, lab 05, we had to start with an experiment to create the mathematical models. the first experimental design can be seen as table 1 above. we were changing the force on the bob to see how it changed the acceleration of the system without changing the mass of the system. we predicted that having more force on m2, which was the bob hanging at the front of the system, would cause a greater acceleration of the system. the experiment was carried out on a frictionless air track that recorded the acceleration of the system when it was run. we collected the data of the acceleration and compared it to the force on the bob and made a graph to see the trend. this graph is figure 1 above. the slope of the linear line provided by excel is the mathematical model. we have confidence in this line generated by excel because the r2 value is 1 meaning 100% of the points fit the line. our hypothesis was right because as the force on the bob increased, the acceleration increased.
during lab 05, we also tested how changing the mass of the system impacts the acceleration of the system. the design table for this experiment is table 2 above. we predicted that increasing mass would increase acceleration. this experiment was also carried out on the frictionless air track. force on the bob never changed, but the mass on m1, which was the cart on the track, was increased with each trial. the accelerations for this experiment were recorded and compared to the overall mass of the system. the graph for this experiment is figure 2 above. the trendline equation given by excel was our mathematical model for this experiment. we are confident in it because the r2 value is 0.9999 which means nearly every point fits the trendline perfectly. our hypothesis was incorrect because increasing the mass of the system actually decreased acceleration.
from lab 05 we understood the x-axis was the variable being tested. for the first experiment that meant the x-axis was force and for the second the x-axis was mass of the system. we also understand that the slope or c1 value was the inverse of the mass of the system. we still did not know what the c2 value (or y-intercept) for the equation represented. lab 06 was about finding out what that value represented in the physical lab setting. this was accomplished by having different groups tested different parts of the lab setting. one part of the original experiment was that there was no friction so our group had to test if the c2 value would change if friction was added. the design for this experiment is table 3 above. we performed the exact same experiment as the first one in lab 05 except we performed it three times is  first with no friction as before, second with two magnets added for friction, and third with four magnets for more friction. the force on the bob was increased with each trial while the mass of the overall system was kept constant just as in the first experiment. the data of the force on the bob and the resulting acceleration was recorded and put into data tables which can be seen above in table 6, table 7, and table 8. these tables were graphed in excel and can be seen above as figure 3, figure 4, and figure 5. excel provided a linear mathematical model for each of the three graphs two of which had an r2 value of 0.9998 and one with r2 value of 0.9999. these values gave us confidence in the mathematical models generated. we hypothesized that adding friction to the cart would decrease the numerical value c2, but our hypothesize was incorrect. there was not a significant enough change between the c2 value for the three mathematical models to state that friction had an effect on the value.
above is a photo of group 2’s results. they tested the friction as we did and their results also support that friction did not impact the numerical value of c2.
above is a photo of the results from group 6 who tested tilt’s affect on the numerical value c2. they concluded that tilting the track forward had a positive impact on the numerical value c2. that is, when the track was tilted forward so that the cart went down a decline, c2 increased. the opposite was also proved by another group as when they tilted the track backward the numerical value of c2 decreased. both of these groups’ data support the hypothesis that the tilt of the track impacts the value c2. this means it can be concluded that the numerical value of c2 is the tilt of the track that the experiment is performed on.

	one random error that we caught during the experiment was that if the string was left too long it would hit the floor when the cart accelerated forward. we realized this was happening because as the cart accelerated the graph went a little crazy because the bob hit the floor and the force on the bob changed. shortening the string fixed this problem and those trials were performed again. another random error we discovered in the experiment was that if the bob was swinging at all when the track was turned on, it caused the graph of the acceleration to be off. once we made sure to always still the bob before beginning the track this error was eliminated.

	there is possibly a systematic error present in either the scale used to find the mass of everything used in the system or in the equipment used for recording the acceleration of the system. this is possible because the slope of the lines graphed in excel should be the inverse of the mass, but the slopes were systematically lower than the inverse of the mass of the system for all three graphs made during lab 06. it is unclear whether the mass of the system measured is slightly off or if the acceleration readings used to create the graph were systematically incorrect.

	one constraint encountered during these labs was not knowing the friction in the pulley system. another would be that the type of string used is not taken into account, thus tension is not discussed.

	our mathematical model is $a =\frac{f}{m}$ . this model is consistent with newton’s second law () because that equation can be rearranged and solved for acceleration. doing so gives the result is  $\frac{f}{m}=a$ which is the same as $a =\frac{f}{m}$.