
Discussion and conclusion.
Throughout this experiment, our research question asked, “What impacts the period of a pendulum?”. When we conducted the experiment to determine if mass had an impact, we determined that mass had no impact on the period of the pendulum. When we changed the mass of the pendulum bob, we concluded that the period remained constant for each trial. Following this experiment, we tested to determine whether the length of the pendulum would impact the length of the period and concluded that there was a positive correlation between the length of the period and the length of the pendulum. Finally, we tested to determine if the release angle would impact the length of the period. We predicted that there wouldn’t be an impact on the length of the period but when our data panned out (see Table 6 and Figure 3) we saw that there was a positive correlation between the length of the period and the higher angles of release.

After conducting the preliminary experiments, we concluded that the only factor that impacted the period length 100% of the time was the length of the pendulum. After coming to this conclusion, we did more testing of the length of the pendulum and used that data to determine a mathematical model. Below, in table 7 and figure 4 the data we used to determine our mathematical model is displayed.

We came to the conclusion that the mathematical model for the relationship between pendulum length and period length can be stated as $t=0.99897 L$ where t is the length of the period in seconds and L is the length of the pendulum in meters.


While this was our conclusion and we conducted the experiment with the intent of minimizing errors, there are both random and systematic errors that need to be accounted for. The random errors include human reaction time with the stopwatches and measuring the length of the pendulum with regards to the center of mass. To minimize these errors, we took multiple measurements with the tape measure and swapped out stop watches for a photogate for a more precise measure of the period length. Possible systematic errors include an imprecise measure of the angle of release, air resistance, and not counting for the mass of the string of the pendulum. To minimize these, we held the protractor at the pivot point of the pendulum until we released the pendulum and because mass of the pendulum didn’t impact the period, we were able to disregard the error that could be caused by not counting for the mass.
