discussion and conclusion.

this experiment was designed to see how the period of the pendulum is affected by the string mass, the angle of release and, the string length of the pendulum.

 	the first factor tested was how mass was affecting the pendulums period. this experiment was carried out using an online phet program (https is //phet.colorado.edu/sims/pendulum-lab/pendulum-lab_en.html). each trial used the photogate timer to time the period, and the pendulum was released at 45 degrees with its mass being 1 kg each time. gravity was set to earth and friction was placed in the middle of the slider. the trendline that i found to have the highest r-value was logarithmic.  based on the data, i have collected from the online program i am 99% sure that mass has a logarithmic correlation under the conditions listed above. the second favor tested was to see how the release angle affects the pendulums period. this test was done using the same online program as test 1 used the same gravity and friction settings as before.

to test how the release angle affects the pendulums period the length of the string was kept at 1 meter and the mass at 1 kg. the photogate timer was also used to time the period. the best fit trend line that was found was the linear line. the trendline does not fit the range of a one-sigma variation. when comparing it to a two-sigma variation, the trendline does fir within the boundaries. given the following circumstances and data, i am 95% sure that the angle of release has a positive linear correlation on the pendulums period. the third and final test that was carried out using the phet program was to see how the string length affects the pendulums period. for this test, the mass of the pendulum was kept at 1 kg, and the release angle was kept at 45 degrees. the same settings for friction and gravity as well as the photogate timer were used.  the best-fit trend line was a power function with an r-value of 1. because it has an r-value of 1 it means under the conditions it was tested; i am 99% sure that the string length has a positive power correlation to the pendulums period. the last test that was done is the same as the last test but was done in a physical lab. in this experiment, the pendulum had a mass of 50g, and the angle of release was 15 degrees. a photogate timer was also used for this test. the best trendline was a power function. it is also close to the same power function we got from the online program. the trend line easily goes fits the range of the error bars. meaning with the stated conditions, i am 99% sure that the string length has a positive power correlation to the pendulums period. 

 the theoretical matutinal model for the period of a pendulum is   where t is the period and, l is the length of the string. notice that mass and angle of release are not a part of the equation regardless of their prominent trend lines. because they are not in the theoretical model th,is   means that they do not have an effect on the period. this is because the equation previously listed is for simple harmonic motion and can only apply to the pendulum when the angle is small enough. this angle is about 30 degrees or less. when i tested how mass affects the module, i used an angle of 45 degrees. this could explain why mass was not included in this formula. the reason why angle and mass do not effect the period as small angles is because “the amplitude of angular displacement is small enough that the small angle approximation ( ) holds true, then the equation of motion reduces to the equation of simple harmonic motion “ (https is //www.acs.psu.edu/drussell/demos/pendulum/pendula.html). because i made my constant release angle 45 degrees, they will not follow the theoretical model. the model says that the period is affected by the string length. to relate it to the experimental equations we found, we can set g in the theoretical formula to 9.8m/s/s. then can change the form of the equation to look more like the power equations in the third and fourth tests. when simplified it becomes $t=2.0071 l^{0.5}$. comparing it to the power equation from the online $t=2.0836 l^{0.4996}$ and the one done physically in a lab $t=2.0847 l^{0.4541}$ we can see they ae close to the theoretical model. comparing this to group 6’s equation  $t=2.0811*l^{0.4481}$       and group 4’s data $t=2.022*l^{0.503}$       i would say our data is somewhat accurate. to make a comparison if the length was 1m there theoretical period would be 2.0071 sec, test 3 model would approximate 2.0836 sec and, test 4 approximates 2.0847 sec.  both experimental models are around one hundredth of a second off from the theoretical model. 

both random and systematic errors could have happened in this experiment. because tests one through three were online the only random error that could have happened would be user error. any systematic errors that happened would be the fault of the program not being programed correctly. the fourth test was done in a lab and is more susceptible to random error. some random errors that could have happened would be in angle measurement or an extra force due to human releasing the pendulum. some systematic errors could be in the miss calibration photogate timer or if there were any faulty or disformed measurement tools. to reduce any random errors, the experiment should be done multiple times. when it comes to the online program if the set up was the same the user should get the same data and any outlier should be eliminated. to eliminate/reduce any systematic errors in tests one through three the program code should be reviewed to check for mistakes or lapses in judgment. in test four calibrating the accuracy for the photogate timer can be cared out. to see if the measuring tools are accurate, they can be tested with known quantities.

because the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum that was used in this experiment only applies to small angles; we can not use this to make a general case for what affects the period of a pendulum in all scenarios. based on test four we can see that the length of the string does have a predictable affect with small angles.