conclusion

	what independent variables affect the time for the pendulum to swing back and forth once?

the independent variables tested were mass, length of the string, angle of release. it was concluded that mass had no effect on the period of the pendulum. as seen in table 1 and figure 1 there is no correlation to the data and the points do not change so no matter what the mass is the period is about the same each time. looking at the error bars in figure 1 show that they could all be equal, as the error bars include the other data points. the graphs are not changed by the error bars or the equivalency criterion. next, it was concluded that length did have an effect on the period of the pendulum. in table 2 and figure 2 there is a clear an obvious correlation between length and the period. as the length decreased the period decreased and as the length increased the period increased. in figure 2 the error bars help to prove that the data is not included in each other even with error. also, the equivalency criterion shows the line in figure 2. finally, it was concluded that the angle did not have an effect on the period of the pendulum. in table 3 and figure 3 there is no correlation between the data in figure 3. looking at the error bars in figure 3 they show that as the angle increased the period stayed the same. the equivalency criterion shows that there was no change in the data to prove and that the angle had an effect on the period.

	the theoretical equation for the period of the pendulum is $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$. the theoretical equation uses gravity and pi. the mathematical model, in figure 4, didn’t include pi or gravity but instead raised the value to a power. although the theoretical equation coefficient gives the value of 2.007 which is close to our mathematical model coefficient which is 2.086. 

the possible systematic errors in our lab are the mass is not exactly what is stated, the scale could not be zeroed, and the stopwatches have different time intervals. the random errors are the stopwatch reaction time due to the reaction time of people, inconsistency in resetting the degree of release, the string length getting larger after every test because the clamp was not strong enough, the initial velocity of the pendulum, and the string was not measured exactly. the systematic errors can be reduced if the mass was properly weighed, the scale would be zeroed, and the stopwatches had the proper time interval. random errors could be reduced if the string length was checked after every test, a better angle measuring tool was used, there was a release platform and a release mechanism, take a few oscillations and take an average, and take a lot of data points. 

	constraints in this experiment that may have generalized the results are following the same lab procedure. these may have led to the results of each group to be similar as everyone is doing the same thing. another constraint is using the sensor to get the time of the period. if the angle was less than 20 degrees and the length was the same then the period would be the same for everyone.