conclusion:

	the purpose of this lab was to collect data in order to develop mathematical models for the behavior of a system under real world conditions, and to develop a thorough understanding for the variables and numerical values found in said models.

	the first model found is represented by figure 2., and was found to be 

 .  in this model, y is the resultant acceleration, and x is the force applied.  the value 22.151 represents the inverse of the system’s mass, and the value of 0.1902 would represent any acceleration present in the system not attributable to the force applied.  model 1 was generated by plotting values for acceleration of the system with varying values of force applied, the data for which can be found in table 2.  the second model found is represented by figure 3., and was found to be .  in this model, y represents the acceleration.  the term  represents the inverse of the mass of the system, and the value 1.1155 would represent any acceleration in the system not attributable to the force applied.

model 2 was generated by plotting values for acceleration of the system at varying values for mass of the system, the data for which can be found in table 4.  the models found during lab 6 are as follows is   (no friction),  (1/2 friction),       (full friction).  these models are in order of ascending friction and were generated by plotting the values of acceleration at varying values of force applied, the data for which can be found in tables 6-8.  the meaning of the values and variables in each of these models aligns with those in model 1.  the decrease in slope that occurs between the models represents the effect of friction.



	the findings of group 2 for models are consistent with the models based on our data and therefore strengthen the confidence we have in what their values represent.  although group 3 performed a different experiment than our group, their model for the system has a format that is consistent with our findings, and therefore gives us no reason to doubt our model.

	one possible source of systematic error could have been improper leveling of the track the sled rode on.  the experiment conducted by group 3 shows that slope of the track does in fact affect the acceleration, so any slope that was unaccounted for would cause an unaccounted for increase in acceleration.  a possible source of random error in our data could be inconsistencies in the photogate for measuring acceleration.  we attempted to mitigate this error through multiple trials, yet this is impossible to entirely eliminate.

	all experiments conducted for this lab took place on earth and are therefore not generalizable for systems on different planets.  in addition to this, the friction in the systems analyzed for this lab were not entirely frictionless, and therefore cannot be generalized to true frictionless hypothetical situations.  lastly, the friction was nearly entirely eliminated in the systems analyzed in this lab, and therefore the results cannot be applied to systems in which there is a significant source of friction.

	all models found through the course of the lab showed a directly correlating linear relationship between force applied and acceleration.  this is consistent with the relationship represented in newtons second law.