discussion and conclusions: 

the question we were testing across these multiple experiments is what factors will affect the period of a pendulum (sec). the factors we tested were mass of the pendulum (kg), angle of release(°), and length of rope(m). 

our three different experiments is  

the first factor we tested for was mass of the pendulum. we kept length and angle of release the same (controlled variables) and changed only mass to see if it had an affect on period of oscillation. this produced figure 2. we analyzed the graph and realized that even with the error bars, as mass changed, the period did not. this resulted in us concluding that there is no correlation between mass and period, thus, change in mass does not affect the period of the pendulum. 

the second factor we tested for was the angle of release of the pendulum. we kept the mass and the length of the pendulum the same (controlled variables) and changed only the angle of release to see if it had an affect on the period of oscillation. this produced figure 4. we analyzed the graph and realized it was the same outcome of the mass vs. period experiment. as the angle changed, the period did not. this resulted in us concluding that there is no correlation between mass and period, thus, change in angle of release does not affect the period of the pendulum. this claim only holds for small angles!

the third and final factor we tested for was the length of the pendulum. for this experiment our controlled variables were the angle of release and the mass of the pendulum. we changed only our length to see if it would have an affect on the period of the pendulum, or be like the previous two factors and fail to have an effect. our experiment created figure 6. looking at this figure, it looks like there is a correlation and we can also say that the error bars do not overlap so there is indeed a different value for the period everytime. we see on the graph that as length goes up, so does the period time. 

from the testing of these three factors, we claimed that length of the pendulum was the only factor out of the three to have an effect on the period of the pendulum. on the graphs we produced, the only one that included a correlation between the variables was length of rope (m) and time(s). however, we only tested for small angles. this means that our claim will hold, but only for the smaller angles. 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is . we can see that the time of the period is equal to 2pi multiplied by the square of length divided by the force of gravity. this fits perfectly into our equation. as you can see, time is dependent on one variable, length. pi and gravity are constants. that means that as you change l(length) you are changing the time of the period. that is exactly what we claimed. another important key is that we found the correlation/relationship to be non-linear(figure 7). this equation would also suggest that due to the fact that l is to the (1/2) power. we found in our data that length and time were the only correlated values. our graphs of mass vs. time, and angle vs. time showed no correlation, meaning one did not affect the other. this also fits into the equation. if we were incorrect, and angle or mass did have an effect on the period of the pendulum, they would be included in the equation. however, they are left out. this means that time is not dependent, i.e. not affected by, on angle of release and mass of the pendulum. 

there were both random and systematic errors throughout our experiment. the most prevalent random error in our experiment was due to human error and our incapability to start and start the stopwatch perfectly every-time we recorded the oscillation. to reduce this error, instead of taking the time for one oscillation, we started the stopwatch and stopped it when five oscillations were up. then we would divide by five to get the time for one period. doing this allowed us to divide our random error into 5. this was the easiest way to reduce our random error without using an instrument which was done in lab 3. another random error was that we couldn’t measure the angle perfectly every-time. to fix this you could always repeat the trial exactly how it was performed and find the average time between them all. the one systematic error we encountered was that we were measuring the length of the pendulum in the incorrect places. we were measuring from the top of the rope to the end, however, the correct length would have been from the top of the rope to the center of mass of the pendulum. this was an easy fix, we simply measured the correct distance. 

one of the largest constraints is that we didn’t measure for larger angles. our results are still valid but only for smaller angles. they can not be generalized to every situation because larger angles could in fact impact the period. we also didn’t take into account the materials being used. we used simple thread-rope for the pendulum but there are materials out there that may be susceptible to air resistance or other factors. so we would also have a hard time generalizing our results to every pendulum that exist.