discussion and conclusion: 

-what affects the period of a pendulum?

angle: 

	the experiment that tested whether the angle that the pendulum was released from would affect the period of it did so by testing three different angles, each five times to get a good data set.  the three angles that were tested were 10, 20, and 30 degrees, and the control variables, length and weight, were kept constant at 0.2 meters and 0.05 kilograms of weight.  when the experiment was done and the data was analyzed, we found that the angle of release did not affect the period of a pendulum.  this can be seen from figure 1 is  graph of angle versus time of the period.  it can be seen that the error bars on this graph easily overlap each other, so we cannot make a claim that the angle of the pendulum at the release affects the period.  because we only tested up to 30 degrees, we can only say that our claims are valid for angles less than or equal to 30 degrees.  the mathematical model that can be used to describe the relationship between angle and the period is linear.  this fits our data because each points of the graph line up with each other creating a straight line, and this is also shown on the figure 1.  the slope for the line that is created from these three points is a very small decimal which concludes that the period is barely being affected by the differing angles.  the fact that the points do not create a line with a slope of zero can be credited to small systematic and random error in the experiment.  the random error that was present in the experiment was not having a completely precise way to start and stop the timer exactly when the pendulum was released, not dropping the pendulum at a perfect horizontal side to side, and finally not having an accurate way to measure the angle.  the systematic error that was present in the experiment was holding the protractor off from center.  some other possible constraints that could limit the generalizability of our results are not accounting for some minor air resistance that could have been present in the room, or the material that the string was made of and whether or not it could have stretched slightly.  

length is 

	the experiment that was done to test whether the length of the string affected the period of the pendulum did this by testing three different lengths, 0.2, 1.0, and 1.5 meters.  when the experiment was tested, there were two variables that were kept constant, weight at 0.05 kilograms and angle at 20 degrees.  after each different length was tested, we analyzed the data and concluded that the length of the string does have an affect on the period of the pendulum.  it can be seen from figure 2 is  graph of the length versus time of the period that each data points are independent from each other because the error bars do not overlap.  on the graph, the error bars are infinitesimally small, but it does not matter because we can still tell that the points are far away enough from each other that we can make the conclusion that the length of the string does indeed affect the period of the pendulum.  because we only tested up to 1.5 meters for the length of the string, we cannot know for 100% certain that after this length if the period will still be affected.  the theoretical mathematical model for the length versus time graph is represented by a power function. as it can be seen from figure 2, our data fits the power function very well because our r squared value is 0.9879 which means that the power function accurately represents our data.  the random error that was present in the experiment was not dropping the pendulum exactly horizontal side to side.  this could have caused the time for the pendulum to be slightly greater than it should have been.  to eliminate this error, we could have implemented a more precise way to release the pendulum perfectly straight.  

mass is 

	the trial to test whether the mass of the pendulum affected the period did so by test three different masses, 0.2, 1.0, and 1.5 kilograms.  the two variables that were kept constant were the length of the string at 1.5 meters and the angle at 20 degrees.  once the trial was completed, we came to the conclusion that the mass of the pendulum did not affect its period.  we found this by analyzing the graph of our data and it is show in figure 3 is  graph of mass versus time of the period.  from this graph, we can see that the error bars on the graph overlap each other which means that we must reject these data points because they can technically be considered the same point.  because of this, we know that the mass of the pendulum does not affect its period.  this conclusion cannot be assumed above a mass of 1.5 kilograms because we did not do any trials above that weight.  the theoretical mathematical model that best fits the plotted point on figure 3 is a linear representation.  even though we cannot use this data to say that the mass affects the pendulum, we can still show the best model of the three data points.  the random error that was present during this experiment was the same random error that was in the other two experiments.  they consist of not having a precise way to start and stop the timer when the pendulum is released and not releasing the pendulum exactly horizontally side to side.  the systematic error that could have been in this experiment is with the weights that were used.  if the weights were not exactly what they said they were supposed to be, then the data would be skewed, but this is not as important because we can still make conclusions with the skewed data. other possible constraints could have been if the more heavy weights stretched the string being used at all, then the data would be off because we know that the length of the string affects the period for a fact.