discussion and conclusion

	the question continually being tested during the three labs was if mass, length of the string, and angle of release affect the period of a pendulum. in the first experiment, we tested each of the independent variables and graphed each of them versus time (figures 1-3). we could not conclusively determine if the graphs portrayed a correlation because we did not know of the error in our measurements. in the second experiment, we kept all three of the independent variables constant and conducted multiple trials in order to calculate the standard deviation of our calculations to determine error. once we determined the error, we were then able to apply this to the graphs from experiment 1 (figures 1-3). because of this new knowledge, we were able to conclude that string length and angle of release affect the period because their error bars did not overlap. because the error bars of the time vs weight graph overlapped, we can conclude that mass has no effect. in the third experiment, we kept weight and angle constant and conducted multiple trials of varying lengths using an apparatus to decrease error. this was then plotted and by using the line of best fit, we determined the equation of the period of a pendulum (figure 4). the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is . the equation of best fit found in figure 4 is equivalent to this however, this equation uses si units and our group used us customary units to carry out our experiment. we can clearly conclude that mass does not have an effect due to the lack of mass in the formula. because there is also a lack of angle involved, we can conclude that our hypothesis for the angle of release was incorrect. because we found a correlation between angle and period in our graph and we now know there is no correlation, we can conclude there was error in our measurements. the main error during this lab was during the timing of the period. using stopwatches and the fact that there are delayed reactions causes an inaccurate time measurement. this was eventually reduced by using the apparatus in the third lab. another source of error was in the measurement of the angle. because we were given a protractor to use on a large system the small measurement tool was ineffective in getting a very accurate reading. this error would be able to be reduced by using a better measurement tool. there were also multiple constrains in this experiment. one constraint was we were limited in the length of the string. for this reason, we couldn’t get enough trial values to keep it from being too general. another constraint was the fact that we had air resistance. we wouldn’t be able to confidently publish our formula due to the fact that the theoretical model does not involve any air resistance.