discussion and conclusion:

in this experiment, the goal was to decide what impacts the period of a pendulum. my group decided we would check three variables, the length of the string, the weight of the ball, and the angle of release. we originally claimed the angle of release and the length of the string would impact the pendulum period, but not the weight of the ball. after the conclusion of the experiment, we have decided that only the length of the string impacts the pendulum period. the conditions are valid where the gravity is consistent with earth’s.

the weight of the ball does not impact the pendulum period. we can confirm this by looking at the associated graph, a.1. the heaviest ball had a shorter pendulum period than the middle two trials, where if there was a pattern it would continue throughout all the data points.

the length of the string does impact the pendulum period. when looking at the graph, b.1, it can be observed that the pendulum period increases with the length of the string. the only part of our graph that may express otherwise is the last data point, but if you include the error bars it still fits the pattern.

the angle of release does not impact the pendulum period. when looking at the graph, the difference is almost negligible from 20 degrees all the way to 40 degrees but gained 0.1 seconds on the next two subsequent trials. i believe this was caused by a slow reaction time when gathering the data, and if it truly impacted the pendulum period, it would be more pronounced and observable in the 40-degree trial.

the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. where l is length of the string and g is the gravitational acceleration on earth. our data fits this model, as we did not test different gravitational accelerations, and did not find any other variable to impact our data in a meaningful way. if you look at graph b.1, you can see how the length of string is directly proportional to an increase in pendulum period. it is also beneficial to note that both weight of the ball and angle of release does not have a variable inside the theoretical equation. if you look at the graph a.1, you can clearly see the ball did not have a positive or negative trend. the graph of c.1, has a small positive trend, but the numbers only increase by 0.1 seconds, which can easily be human reaction time error.

errors in this lab included human reaction time error on the stopwatch, inconsistent angle of release reference point, inconsistent placement of the tape measure for the string, and using an uncalibrated triple beam balance. all the errors listed would be random errors, except for the triple beam balance, as it would have measured the same amount off for each ball. the stopwatch error can be limited by taking an average of more trials. both the angle of release and tape measure errors could be eliminated by having the protractor and tape measure respectively in the same non-moving position. lastly, the triple beam balance would just need to be confirmed to be calibrated before the experiment to eliminate the error, or to use a digital scale instead.

i do not believe there are any constraints outside of the errors listed in the paragraph above that could impact the generalizability of the results.