conclusion:
Using the given uncertainty of the photogate, .001 seconds, we put error bars onto the graph above. They are not visible. Because they are not visible and do not overlap, or come close to overlap, we are confident in their being a relationship between the length and period. The research question for these experiments was, “What impacts the period of a pendulum?”.
When looking at the graph of weight Vs period, it is observed that the error bars for all of the measurements overlap. According to the equivalency criterion, when the bars overlap, no relationship can be determined between the two variables, as there is reasonable uncertainty that the values may not be different. Because of this, it is reasonable to claim that there is no relationship between the weight of the bob and the period of the pendulum. In the graph of the Length V period using the photogate data, the error bars are not visible, and do not overlap. The data points also fit upon a power curve closely. Because the error bars for these data points do not overlap, it is reasonable to claim that there is a relationship between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum. When looking at the graph of the angle V period, it can be seen that the error bars for most of the points overlap. Because of this, it is reasonable to claim that there is no relationship between the angle and the period. The theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is such is  and our empirical model was $y=2.1 x^{0.405}$
The empirical model is written in the same form, however the coefficients are not correct. They do not fully support the theoretical model. If more data had been collected however, the empirical model would have been closer to the theoretical. 

A random error in these experiments would be the uncertainty associated with the photogate, which could be minimized by using a more precise electronic timing system. A systematic error is the positioning of the bob in the photogate. Our group positioned it so that the thin end of the bob was the one that contacted the lazer. Using the big end would yield a different error. The constraints of this experiment are the timing apparatus used, as well as the air currents associated with the atmosphere. These both add uncertainty to any measurements collected. 
