discussion and conclusion

in these experiments, there were three different assumption, and these experiments was done to investigate variables that can affect the period of the pendulum. the three variable which were done to investigate is  length of the string, mass of the pendulum, and angle of release of the pendulum. according to this experiment, the length of the string on the pendulum is the only variable that affects the period the pendulum.

	the graph of the experiment 1, represent the correlation between the mass and the period of the pendulum. at first, we determined the angle (15 deg) and length of the string (39cm) and we used different mass from 50g to 210g to investigate if the mass affect the period or not. according to our data we don’t have the enough results and points to say that the mass influenced the period of pendulum. in the second experiment, the mass and length were constant, and we were changing the angel to see if it’s affected the period or not, we did different angels from 5(deg)to 25(deg), but the results were very close to each other so we can not conclude that the angel had an effect on the period, in other words there is not enough evidence to prove it. in the third experiment, we put the at angel (15 deg) and mass (130g), and we were changing the length of the string starting from 20.7, 39 until 55.8. after collecting our data and results we conclude that the length had an impact on the period of the pendulum.

	in the third lab, we determined that the only variable had an impact was length. so in the third lab the goal was to reduce the error bats by using sensors (photogate) instead of using the stopwatches to reduce the amount of uncertainty. in the table 8 we used 5 different lengths to prove that the length has an impact on period. also, the photogate helps us to reduce the errors so the relationship between the length and period was shown clearly in the graph 5 and it doesn’t have a linear relationship. therefore, the mathematical model that we found is $t=0.9141498 l$ and the r2 is  0.9994.

	there were some errors in theses experiment, such as the stopwatches. we used the photogate instead of the stopwatch and we saw the differences between the results, and we conclude that photogate gives us more accurate results. also, there were other errors like is  forgetting to chick the length of string, mass of the bob, releasing the angle of the pendulum, and we didn’t do enough trails to get more accurate values. the only systematic error that i mentioned above was the stopwatches errors, and we can reduce the systematic error by changing or fixing equipment’s. otherwise, all other errors were random errors and we can reduce errors by doing the experiment again and again until we found a correct result. 

	in the end, we found that the mass and the angle don’t have any impact in the period, but the length had.