conclusion:
The time period at which our first experiment was conducted was on February 22nd, I conducted the experiment with my Lab partners from Lab 05. The design template for our first experiment is shown in Table 1. We investigated how the acceleration of a system change when the hanging force changes. Our independent variable was the hanging force, and our dependent variable is the acceleration of the cart. Our control variable was the mass of the system, which we maintained at 250.23 Kilograms. Our testable hypothesis was as follows is  The hanging force has an impact on the acceleration of the cart. We predicted that as the hanging force increases, the acceleration will increase. After conducting the experiment, we gathered the data shown in Table 2. We graphed the data in Graph 1. The error bars in the graph represent the uncertainty of the rotary motion detector, which was ± .001 m/. 
Our first experiment was designed to test how the acceleration of a system changes when the hanging force changes. In order to test this, we changed the amount of mass on the pulley in order to increase the hanging force, and we observed how these changes impacted the acceleration of the system. We measured the acceleration with a rotary motion detector, which has an uncertainty of ± .001 m/ and which represents the error bars in Graph 1. Our experimental mathematical equation that was found using the trendline was . This supports our conclusion that as the hanging force increases, the acceleration increases as well. In comparing our data to other groups, we found that our equation was slightly different from the other groups in the class. For example, group 1’s equation was . Group 1’s equation does support our prediction that acceleration increases as the hanging force increases, however their coefficient is slightly lower. Another group, group 2, had an equation of  which also supports our equation. However, we see again that the coefficient is slightly lower in their equation in comparison to ours. This could be due to our cart experiencing increasing amounts of friction with the track as we increased the mass on the cart. 
The theoretical model of the acceleration of a system by a single force is $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$. If we compare it to our Experimental Mathematical Models $a=C1 F+C2$, we see that in both models, if we increase the force in the system, and control for the mass of the system, the acceleration with increase. Both curves of each equation show positive linear relationships. Therefore, our Experimental Mathematical Model does support the Theoretical Model. The Enhanced Theoretical Equation is  $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$ considers any other forces that the system may encounter. The Experimental Mathematical Model, $a=C1 F+C2$, does support the Enhanced Theoretical Model. In both equations, as force increases, and the mass of the system is held constant, the acceleration of the system increases. However, the Enhanced Theoretical Model is more precise as you can account for the friction force that we experienced during our experiment. 
If we were to replace the string with a heavier string, it would not influence the acceleration. The mass of the system would increase, however, the hanging force would not. Since we control for the mass of the system, and the hanging force is what drives the change in acceleration, we would not see a difference in the acceleration. 
Random errors in our experiment are as follows is  The placement of the bobs on the cart and the string could have caused the cart or the string to be weighed down on one side. We can correct for this by ensuring that the bobs on the cart and string are placed so that the mass is distributed equally. Another random error could be our selection of the data points in Data Studio. We could have selected an array of points that were measured while the cart was experiencing some friction force from the track. The friction between the cart and the track is also a random error that we encountered. This we can see may have impacted our results, as the last 3 points fell below our trendline. 
Constraints that we ran into while during our experiment were as follows is  We were limited on the amount of mass we could test, as we had a limited amount of masses to put on the cart. We were also constrained by the amount of mass that the cart and track could accommodate, due to lack of space.  Another constraint is the length of the string used to pull the cart, which limited on how much data we could collect in a single trial. 