discussion and conclusion:

	the objective of this lab is to discover which factors affect the period of a pendulum.

	the three experiments in this lab helped address the research question because in them three potential variables that could affect the pendulum were tested to help determine which ones truly had an effect. for the first experiment, that being the test of drop angle vs period of the pendulum, we predicted that drop angle would not have an effect on the period of the pendulum. the experiment showed that the drop angle does not have a significant effect on the period of the pendulum for small measures of angles, however, as the angle size increases, then it does produce results. this is proven by our data, which highlights that for our tested values, that being 0 – 30, there is not enough of a significant change to indicate that drop angle has an affect on the period of the pendulum. the size of the error bars attached to our graph were created with a measure of 0.05, and if our line went between each point, we could be 95 percent certain of our data. however, our line did not cross through all 3, and passed completely under the error bar. this signals to us that we cannot be certain in the equation we derived from the data. this further adds doubt to the claim that drop angle has a serious affect on the period of the pendulum.  however, considering the equivalency criterion, which would double the size of our error bars to + and  2 is standard deviations, then all the line was contained within the error bars, so we could be 95 percent certain of our data. worth noting, once the angles moved above 30 degrees, the slope between the points indicated that there was a significant change in the period of the pendulum, beyond any level of error. thus, our prediction was ultimately incorrect, the drop angle did have a significant effect on the drop angle while the mass and the string length were held constant, it just simply had to reach a high enough angle. for the second experiment, that being mass vs drop angle, we predicted that mass would have a positive correlation with the period of the pendulum. the experiment showed that mass does not have a significant effect on the period of the pendulum, at least for our tested range of 50 to 250 grams. there was not a significant enough change in our data, as shown above, to indicate that mass had any impact on the period of a pendulum. our data points were incredibly close to each other, being within 0.01 seconds of each other. in addition, our error bars, which whose size was made with the value of 0.05 in mind as the standard deviation, in two cases did not contain the line of our data. in addition, when applying the equivalency criterion, one of these bars still remained above the line. therefore, we cannot be completely sure that our data is accurate, and not random. however, that said, this data if true disproved our prediction, and showed that there is no correlation between the mass of the bobber and the period of the pendulum between the masses of 50 and 250 grams while the string length and the drop angle were held constant. lastly, for the third experiment that being the length of the string versus the period of the pendulum, we predicted that the string length would have a positive correlation with the period of the pendulum. as the above graphs showed, there is in fact a positive correlation between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum. the distances between our data points were significant enough to show this, and as the string length increased, the period of the pendulum similarly increased. in addition, because every single point on our line went through our data bars, which were set using a standard deviation of 0.05, we can be 95 percent sure that our data is correct. there is then no need to apply the equivalency criterion, as our data is already contained by one standard deviation, much less 2.  this further backs up our prediction that string length has a positive correlation with the period of the pendulum. thus, our prediction was proven for the range of string length we chose, that being 20 to 175 centimeters.

	

	the theoretical mathematical equation for the period of the pendulum can be represented by the theoretical model of $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ where l is the length of the string and g is the constant for gravity on earth, 9.8 meters a second. the equation we derived from the data of string length vs period of the pendulum fit very well with this result, being $y=0.222 x^{0.4823}$. plugging in the various string lengths in to this equation for x produce almost identical results to plugging into the theoretical equation. this leads us to further believe that string length is the ideal variable that affects the period of the pendulum. as for the mass of the bobber, there seems to be very little relation. the equation we derived from our data on mass vs period produced the equation $y =-5e^{-05}*x+1.4522$     this seemed to have nothing in common with the theoretical equation, and when mass was plugged into the theoretical equation of the period, the values were incredibly far from correct. even with the derived mass equation, the period moved very little, almost never being outside of a +- 0.5 range. in addition, this is a linear equation, not a power equation, and our data showed that the string length had a power curve relationship with the period, not linear. this further reinforces our conclusion that mass has no effect on the period of the pendulum. lastly, for drop angle, the derived equation from our data above was $y=0.0005 x+1.4266$        similarly to mass, this equation seems to have nothing to do with the theoretical model, and when the same numbers were plugged into both, the answers were, as expected, wildly different. this has led us to further believe that the drop angle has little to no effect on the period of the pendulum whilst the drop angle is small. larger drop angles produced some variation in the period, however. regardless, the fact that this equation was also linear and not a power curve, further reinforced our conclusion. 

	some errors which were present is human reaction time, human measurement of the angle, and initial angle measurement with a compass. for the first point, humans have a certain reaction time between their brains and giving commands to react. this limited our ability to accurately record the time of the period of a pendulum, as human reaction time ensured that we would always be at least a few decimal points off. this became apparent in our initial trials with recording the pendulum with our eyes and a stopwatch. for lab two, in order to cut down on this, three different people record the period at the same time to get a better average. in addition, we also counted 10 full periods, and then divided the final number by 10. this would allow us to get a better average time, instead of relying on human reaction to get catch the pendulum on the first try. lastly, to almost eliminate human reaction time as an error, a photogate system was implemented. when the pendulum broke the last line produced by the photogate, the period would be recorded. this was far, far more accurate than human methods, and allowed a truly accurate reading of the period, as the laser is precise and exact, down to fractions of a second. the second source of error present is that a human cannot exactly accurately judge the angle of the pendulum when they are dropping it. therefore, the drop angle would always be slightly off from its intended value. one possible solution to fix this source of error is to use a mechanical arm. this arm would never move on its own accord like a human would and could be set to the accurate drop angle every single time. this would allow a more accurate and consistent measurement of drop angle than a human dropping the pendulum every could. the final possible source of error is the fact that even though a protractor was used, human hands had to draw a marker line to mark the angle on a whiteboard. the line could have been slightly curved or misjudged by even a half a degree. regardless, it is almost impossible to draw a perfectly straight line exactly on the angle marker. a way to remove this would be to use an electronic compass, which measures the angle before every drop. this would guarantee that the drop angle is exact every time it was tested and would help remove human error from the process. 

	some constraints that could limit the generalizability of our results would be the range which our variables were tested with, the environment of testing, and the materials of testing. firstly, we had to use a relatively small and specific range of values for our variables, for instance, the mass. we were only able to test masses between 50 grams and 250 grams. this is because the bobber we were required to use was 50 grams, and with every possible weight that could fit attached, the maximum mass a bobber this size could achieve was 250 grams. had we used far more mass, for instance, 1000 grams, perhaps the period of the pendulum would see a significant change in duration. we cannot know for certain, as we did not test these values. the same applies to string length. perhaps above 180 centimeters, the string length stopped having any real effect on the period of the pendulum. 180 is the largest measurement we were able to do with the materials provided and the height of our stand, so we cannot know for certain.  another such constraint is the environment of our testing. we did not in any capacity account for or measure air resistance, and the environment of the lab may not be the most conducive to getting completely accurate results. perhaps wind blew in from outside, or the air resistance slowed the pendulum. we have no way of knowing for certain unless the pendulum is tested inside an airtight environment, where wind resistance is at least drastically lowered. finally, a constraint that limited the generalizability of our results would be the materials that we had to use for testing. we observed that at larger drop angles, the period of the pendulum is affected by the drop angle. we had hypothesized that this is because of slack in the string at higher levels. perhaps had we used a chain or something of that nature, the period would not have been affected at all, even at higher estimations. we cannot know for certain, as we lacked the materials to test this.