conclusion::
In lab 06 our group was tasked with testing how the friction applied to the system will affect the y-intercept of the force applied vs acceleration graph, there was not a strong correlation between friction applied to the system and the y-intercept of the force applied and acceleration graph. The purpose of lab 05 was to create a mathematical model to see if the mass of the system or the force applied to the system will affect the acceleration of the system. The research question for lab 05 was how does the acceleration of a system change when mass of the system changes? The other research question was is  how does the acceleration of a system change when the force applied changes? In lab 05 our group found a strong positive correlation between force applied and acceleration of the system and a negative correlation between the mass of the system and the acceleration of the system. The purpose of lab 06 was to test what factors affect certain aspects of this mathematical model, the y-intercept in particular. The research question for lab 06 was how does the y-intercept of the force vs acceleration graph change and the friction applied to the system changes? For lab 05 the when the independent variable tested was the mass hanging from the system (force applied to system) and the dependent variable was the acceleration of the system. The force applied to the system was changed from .048067 N to .3720933 N while the mass of the system was kept constant the force applied to the system and acceleration were graphed on excel to reveal a mathematical model (Table 4). The mathematical model created by excel (Figure 1) was  where y is the acceleration of the system and x is the force applied to the system. Using the theoretical mathematical model of $F=m a$ (Newtons Second Law) where F is the force applied, m is the mass of the system, and a is the acceleration of the system. We can manipulate this theoretical model to be is a similar form to the mathematical model obtained by excel to  . From the mathematical model obtained from excel the coefficient for the x (force applied) should be equal to 1/mass of the system theoretically the coefficient should be 2.5629 from excel the coefficient of the mathematical model was 2.5338 this has a 1.67% error. The error bars are too small to be seen and the r^2 value for this graph is .9997 so we can say the force applied to the system impacts the acceleration of the system with 95% certainty. This claim can be made because a horizontal line could be drawn through all of the points and be outside of the error bars for most of the data points even to 2. For the second independent variable tested during lab 05 (mass of the system) the force applied to the system was kept constant while the mass of the system was increased from .37089 kg to .77559 kg (Table 5). The mass of the system and acceleration of the system were graphed on excel to create a mathematical model (Figure 2),  where y is the acceleration of the system and x is the mass of the system. The theoretical mathematical model is  where a is acceleration, F is the force applied, and m is the mass of the system. For the second experiment the force was kept constant and the mass of the system was increased. This should lead to the acceleration of the system decreasing as the mass of the system increases. This can be seen in the mathematical model from excel. There is a negative correlation between the mass of the system and the acceleration of the system this graph had an r^2 value of .9868. A horizontal line can be drawn and would not pass through most of the error bars on this graph.
For lab 06 the friction applied to the system was the independent variable to test the affect on the y-intercept of the acceleration vs force applied graph. This was done by using magnetic “friction bars” the mass of the system was kept constant and 3 trials were conducted with 0 (Table 6), 2 (Table 7), and 4 friction bars (Table 8). The force applied was changed to create the graph. The equation given by excel (Figure 3) for the first trial (no friction bars) was  where y is the acceleration of the system and x is the mass of the system. For the second trial (2 friction bars) the equation given by excel (Figure 4) was where y is the acceleration of the system and x is the mass of the force applied to the system. For the third trial (4 friction bars) the equation given by excel (Figure 5) was  where y is the acceleration of the system and x is the force applied to the system. From these graphs there is not a strong correlation between force of friction applied and the y-intercept of the equation for the graph of acceleration of a system vs force applied to the system. The enhanced theoretical equation for these graphs is . One of the equations from lab 06 trial 4 was $y=1.6531 x-.0248$. From this equation we can see that the coefficient of the x is equal to 1/mass of the system +  where the force is due to friction, since magnetic friction bars were used this force of friction cannot be calculated.

Group 5 tested how the angle of the track impacts the y-intercept off the acceleration vs force applied graph. The data from group 5 (“Group 5 PHYS 2001L-013 19 SS”) shows a decrease in the y-intercept of the mathematical model when the angle of the track is increased. Group 5’s independent variable was the angle of tilt of the track while the dependent variable tested was the acceleration of the system and the y-intercept. The heights that the track was raised were .3 cm, .6 cm, 1.2 cm, 1.7 cm, and 2.9 cm. The y-intercepts of these heights -.0258, .0185, .0534, .0729, and .0969 respectively. From this data the conclusion can be drawn that the angle of inclination affects the y intercept more than the friction applied to the system (Our group’s independent variable). The data that we collected did not show a strong correlation between friction applied to the system and the y intercept. 



Group 4 tested the friction applied to the system as the independent variable. From group 4’s data (“Group 4 PHYS 2001L-013 19 SS”) we can see that there is not a correlation between force applied and the y-intercept of the acceleration vs force applied graph. From figure 8 the conclusion can be drawn that as the friction applied to the system changes the y-intercept is not impacted. This is the same conclusion that was drawn by our group while testing how applied friction impacts the y-intercept of the acceleration vs force applied graph. Some systematic errors that may have occurred are any scale errors such as the scale error in the balance or the scale error in DataStudio. These systematic errors can be “reduced” by placing these scale errors on the graphs as error bars or by using more accurate equipment. A random error that may have occurred is an inconsistency in the “frictionless” surface that the cart traveled on this surface is “frictionless” due to air being moved between the track and the cart there are likely inconsistencies in this air pressure. To reduce this random error, we could take more data and average it. A constraint of this lab was that the string was assumed to be massless and in-elastic. Also, the tracks were not truly “frictionless” so if the lab were to be repeated on a different track or with a different type of string the results may vary from what we found. If a string with a large mass was used the acceleration of the system would increase as time increased, the force applied to the system would not be consistent. As time passed more mass would be added to the mass/force applied to the system. Another constraint was that the highest mass of the system tested was .559 kg if this experiment were to be repeated with a system with more mass the results may vary. Another constraint may be the force applied on the system, the highest force applied to the system tested was .03793 N. If this experiment were to be reproduced by someone else their results may vary if they use an applied force higher than this.
