discussion and conclusion:

	based on the results presented and the corresponding graph created it is fair to conclude that there is no correlation between the mass of weight and the period of the pendulum as despite a change in mass there is no significant difference in the time of the period. this conclusion can be safely made with the information provided as even with the error produced during the trials there would still be only a minimal chance of a correlation between the mass of the weight and the time.

	the data provided clearly shows a positive correlation between the length of string and the time of the period proving the prediction that shorter lengths will have shorter periods. it is safe to conclude this using the data provided because even if error is taken into consideration there will still prove to be some correlation in the data.

	after determining a positive correlation between the length of string and the time of a period more analysis was conducted on the correlation during experiment 3. during the analysis, more trials were conducted more accurately using a photogate sensor to measure period and analyzing a wide range of lengths. the purpose of the analysis was to attempt to determine a mathematical relationship between the independent and dependent variable.

research question

what mathematical model best fits the time for one period depending on the length of the string?

through further analysis we found that the length of string is more related to a power curve rather than a linear relationship. this is supported when the r-values are compared between a linear best fit line and a power curve best fit line. when this is done the power curve’s r value is closer to one then the linear line. if error were to be taken into consideration during the experiment many points would have to be significantly changed in order to produce a linear best fit line. it is therefore safe to conclude that the relationship between string length and pendulum period is a power curve rather than a linear curve.
	based on the data presented it is fair to conclude that the angle that the pendulum is released at is not related to the period of the pendulum as the time it takes to complete one period is the relatively the same between each angle.

	through the results found in the experiment it is concluded that the only independent variable to show any relation to length of a period is the length of the string from which the pendulum swings. this conclusion has been reach through evidence 


	through further experimentation of the line our group was able to derive the mathematical relationship $y=0.1261358 x$ for the power curve relationship between the length and the period. this equation supports the conclusions made by the theoretical equation            for the period of a pendulum. when a target length is plugged into both equations then compared only a 3% difference is derived. this proves that the equation produced through our is a fair representation of the theoretical model and therefore it is safe to conclude that the theoretical equation is also represented be a power curve. while error bars could produce a change in the equation because of the amount of trials conducted the derived equation can be assumed as reasonably accurate.


	while techniques were put in place at the beginning of the experiment to ensure our results were as accurate as possible there were still many significant factors that could produce error. one source of error could be the release angle. when release angles were tested inaccurate angle readings could have caused slight changes from the horizontal line made to suggest that there is no correlation. however, even when angle is proven to be irrelevant it is important to ensure that the angle is less than 20 degrees otherwise the laws of simple harmonic motion do not apply, and error will occur. this would be an example of random error because it is mostly caused by human error in angle measurement using a protractor. another source of error during the experiment, is during the use of the timers. while this was a good estimate for understanding the relationship between the periods and their respective independent variable, in order to obtain truly accurate mathematical models a more precise method of measurement must be used to reduce random error caused from human intervention. it is for this reason that the photogate was introduced when a mathematical model was trying to be formulated. some examples of systematic error include length of the tape measure and mass of the weight. these are systematic as they will skew the data but will do so in a consistent matter. this means that even if the data is slightly off it will still represent the true model well enough to decide whether or not there is a relationship.



	throughout the experiment there were many constraints that prevented the experiment from being as accurate as possible. these constraints made it possible to only get an estimate of the theoretical model for the equation of a pendulum rather than the accepted equation. one example of these constraints is using the timers to record the time. this was a fairly inaccurate way to produce a mathematical model for the equation of a pendulum, but it proved to be a good way to see the relationships. this constraint was reduced significantly when the photogates were introduced to produce a mathematical representation. another constraint is the exactness of the tape measure. this aspect of the experiment could produce systematic error if the marks on the tape measure were incorrectly written. this would allow for all relationships to appear the same but also be slightly different than the theoretical value. the last constraint discussed in this report is the length of string and the size of the bar. these constraints limited the range of values that could be tested when attempting to produce a mathematical model and therefore prevented the most accurate results as only a small portion of values could be tested.