conclusion:
the purpose of lab 5 was to develop a mathematical model which will show the relationship between force and acceleration and mass and acceleration. the purpose of lab 6 was to develop a mathematical model that would relate the angle of the track to the acceleration. 

the first part of the experiment in lab 5 was to find the relationship between force and acceleration. this was done by moving the bobbers from the cart to the end the string. this would change the acceleration in the system when we read the change in force in the force sensor. in table 4, we would start to see a relationship that with an increase with force saw an increase with acceleration. the trendline given in table 4 would give the mathematical model showing the relationship between force and acceleration. the r^2 value of .9999 shows that there is a strong relationship between force and acceleration. the second part of experiment in lab 5 was to find the relationship between force and mass. this was done by adding bobbers from the string to the cart. this would change the mass of the cart while keeping the force constant so that we can see the relationship between acceleration and mass. in table 5, we see that with a with an increase in mass saw a decrease in acceleration. the trendline which is based on each plotted mass vs acceleration point given in table 5 would give the mathematical model showing the relationship between mass and acceleration. the r^2 value of .9884 shows that there is a strong relationship between mass and acceleration. in lab 6, we found the relationship between angle and acceleration. we saw how the angle affects the acceleration. we measured the height of the metal block in order to reference angle. we know that with a greater height of the metal blocks, there will be a greater angle. using this reference, we were able to compare the acceleration with the angle. we saw based tables 6-11 that with a forward tilt, as you add height and increase the angle, the acceleration will increase.                                                                                          


the graph above is given from group 3. we see that based off their data that friction is related to the number of magnets. we see that with an increase of magnets and therefor friction, there was a decrease in acceleration. this data can help us understand our data by relating them to each other. we see that the constant in their equation is the acceleration when friction is equal to zero. this makes sense because our car was accelerating when there was no friction present. we also see from their data that a increase in force saw an increase in acceleration. this is correspondent to our graphs such as table 4.


the graph above is from group 2. we see that with a force applied to system, there will be an increase in acceleration. this relates to our data as well because we saw that with an increase of force saw an increase of acceleration such as in table 4. this can help us understand that x in our mathematical model is equal to the force applied to the system which would have a direct effect on acceleration. they also have a high r^2 values such as us indicating that our relationship between force and acceleration is very strong.

there could have been a systematic error with force sensor program. it could have not been calibrated properly and show an increase or decrease in the force that was actually applied to the system. we should do a calibration test in the future to make sure the force sensor is working. there could have been random error associated with moving the bobbers from the string to the cart. the bobbers could have not been perfectly place which would show an increase in force because gravity would be doing more work if it was hanging from the side of the cart. there also could have been random error associated each time one end of the track was lifted to a certain height. we should make sure that next time each block is perfectly aligned together so that the height is constant with what we measured.

there could have been constraints with this experiment being perform in a classroom setting. we could not have the precise equipment that we would get in a laboratory setting. this would lead to systematic error in the equipment if it is not reading correctly by a certain factor. this would limit our generalizability of our results because we would also need more trials on our performed data which would take longer than the lab period itself. the more trials that we would have had, the more we would be able to conclude the results found in our experiment.

we see that mass and acceleration does affect force. when we set mass constant in experiment 5, there was a change in acceleration when a different force was applied. this makes sense according to $f=m a$ which shows the relationship between mass and acceleration. we also saw the mass affect the acceleration of the system when force is constant. an increase in mass must have a decrease in acceleration to have the same force which is shown in table 5. this would make sense with the equation $f=m a$ because mass acceleration is equal to the force so an increase in mass must be compensated by a decrease in acceleration to have the same force.