conclusion and discussion
in conclusion, this experiment succeeded in answering the research question is  what impacts the period of pendulum with small swings? in each experiment, each of three factors is  mass of bob, string length, and released angle was tested independently by changing the value of only itself and keeping other factors at constant values. hence, doing so helps evaluating the effect of each factor on the period of pendulum.
with string length, it was hypothesized that string length affected the period of pendulum. also, it was predicted that when the string length was increased, the period would be increased. those hypothesis and prediction were verified by the experimental data. according to the table 1, when the string length was increased continuously from 0.3 to 2.4 m, the period was also increased from 1.2s to 2.9s. in addition, the uncertainty in graph 1 was too small to observe, making not uncertainty range of any points overlap on each other. this evidence stated that there was a proportional relationship between string length and period of pendulum.
with mass of pendulum and released angle, same as string length, the hypothesis also expected an effect of both factors on period of pendulum. however, the experimental data did not support those claims. with mass of bob, there was no pattern of change detected in the graph 2. except the first point (49.8 g, 1.82 s), other 4 points seemed to remain constant. the fluctuation between them might be caused mainly by random errors. moreover, their four uncertainty ranges overlapped on each other. therefore, it was reasonable to deduct that there was no relationship between mass of bob and period.
similar things happened with graph 3 released angle vs period. except the first point (50,

1.60 s), other 4 points had their uncertainly ranges on each other. among those 4 points, the maximum value was 1.67 s and the minimum vale was 1.63 s. with the uncertainty value of 0.02 s, it could not be concluded that the released angle had any effect on period of pendulum.

based on three data table and graph, the experiment came to conclusion that only string length among three factors listed above had effect on the period of pendulum.
this conclusion was used to develop a mathematical equation expressing dependence of period on string length. fitting curve was chosen for graph 1 among various equations. the most fitting curve, which generated highest value of r2 , was $t =0.2015$ l^0.45.
this mathematical model supported the theoretical equation. the theoretical equation is
$t =2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$
hence, the mathematical equation matched the theoretical equation.
there were several kinds of random errors in this experiment. firstly, it could be the bad cooperation between who released the bob and who kept the timer. it led the scenario where the timer was started before or after the bob was released. this made the period lower or higher randomly. secondly, it would be the bad control of experimenter’s hand. sometimes, the experimenter could unconsciously push their own force on the bob or lower the released angle. since his hand behavior was unpredictable, so were the error in the results of period.
to limit these kinds of error, the only way was to practice. the experiment should practice keeping their hands stable for a while. addition, the experiment who released the bob should give a clearer and firmed signal for who kept the timer so that they almost started at the same time.
first constraint of this experiment was the method. in theory, the pendulum will move forever and the period will be stable for each swing. however, in the experiment, due to the air resistance, the speed of each swing will reduce gradually. this makes the average period recorded in 5 periods might be lower than the period in ideal condition. another constraint was the lack of equipment to determine the position of the bob. in this experiment, each period was considered “completed” when the bob reached its highest position. however, the highest position depended only on the perspective of the experimenter. in some scenarios, if he decided to stop the bob when it had not reached the peak, the average period would be lower than the ideal period. otherwise, if he stopped the bob after it came to peak, the average period would be higher than the ideal one.