discussion and conclusion



the object is to find out what are the factors that impact the acceleration of a system. in experiment 1, a direct relationship between acceleration and force can be found. as the force applies to a system increased, the acceleration of the system increases as well. by this specific pattern, the result of experiment 1 can be concluded as there is a proportional relationship between acceleration and force of a system. in experiment 2, a direct relationship between acceleration and mass can be found. as the mass increasing in a system, the acceleration decreases as well. by this specific pattern, the result of experiment 2 can be concluded as there is an inversely proportional relationship between acceleration and force of a system. in experiment 3, there is no relationship between the tilted surface and the acceleration of a system if the mass is controlled. as the angle of the surface increased, the acceleration of a system does not change, and it remain the same.

in experiment 1, the mathematic model is $a = 2.8718 f - 0.0219$, 2.8718 is a positive constant and it also indicate the slope between acceleration and force. a positive constant will explain the proportional relationship between acceleration and force. in experiment 2, the mathematic model is $a = -1.5399 m + 0.9873$. -1.5399 is a negative constant and it also indicate the slope between acceleration and mass of the system. a negative constant will explain the inverse proportional relationship between acceleration and mass the system. the data from experiment 3 shows that the correlation between acceleration and force on tilted surface can be written as $a = c1 f + c2$. c1 is a constant between 2.8143 and 2.9381, c2 is a constant between -0.1218 and -0.0388. according to the variation of c1 and c2, result shows that the dependent variable does not change. the constants will not be affected by the independent variable. five different heights have been chosen in experiment 3 as the independent variable. five heights have increment of 0.006 m from 0 to 0.024 m. the uncertainty of five constants can be written as 2.8762±0.0619 with maximum 2.9381 and minimum 2.8143. 
another group also doing the same experiment to our group. the only difference is they add the mass to at the end of the track, but we add the height to the front of the track. since the experimental controls are the same so, although constants may be different to us, it will not affect the result of acceleration verses force graph. in their data, c1 with uncertainty can be written as 1.52735±0.07567. the variation between five c1 is very small and their uncertainty is close to our data. their functions show the same result as us which a tilted surface will not affect the acceleration of a system if mass is constant.
another group did a similar experiment to our group. the force in their system is controlled and they changed the mass of the system to see if the acceleration of the system change. the result shows it does not matter how mass changes, the slope of the acceleration verses force graph never changes. which it means the tilted surface will not affect the acceleration of a system if force is constant.
in our “height at 0.006m” and “height at 0.024m” graphs, there are some noisy that can be considered as random errors during the measurement. since our group and group 5 have exactly same experimental controls and condition, we may do another experiment which also adding mass at the end of the track. if the constants are close to what group 5 did, that will be helpful to support our data. the surface of the track is not hundred percent frictionless. the experiment did above did not contain the factor that friction does to the system. the pulley used during the experiments sometime does not work and it can be considered lacking machine oil to reduce the friction of the wheel. the variety of the pulley may also be a factor that influence the result, the experiments have been done without testing the size of pulley.
newton 2nd law states that $f = m a$. so, acceleration can be defined as $a = \frac{f}{m}$. the mathematic model of the experiment above is $a = 2.8762 f - 0.0219$. -0.0219 can be considered as systematic error if the equation needs to fit into newton 2nd law. rewrite the equation to $a = 2.8762 f$, 2.8762 from the equation can be determined as inverse mass of the system from mathematic perspective.