discussion and conclusion:
	the purpose of these labs were to develop mathematical models which describe the behavior of a real system. these were to help us develop a good understanding for each variable and the numerical values that are given in these results. for lab 05 we were given the task of just moving the amount of mass is on the hanging or cart on the track. from this, we were to determine the acceleration and hypothesize whether the acceleration will increase or decrease dependent on whether the mass of hanging is greater than, or slightly less than that on the track. 

	as we view our graph for lab 05, we’re able to see that as the hanging mass (g) increases over time, we get a gradual if not completely linear increase in acceleration. giving us the acceleration equation of $a=0.0287 x - 0.0715$. the units of the coefficient multiplied by the mass are meters/second squared. this tells us the for every (g) of hanging mass the acceleration increases by 0.0287. the value that is subtracting from our variable, is most likely a retarding/drag force that we did not account for (air resistance, minimal friction on track or pulley, etc.). from this we can say that for this situation, as the hanging mass increases, the acceleration increases as well. for the second graph, we can see that as we progress we are putting mass on the cart on the track and we are trying to see whether the acceleration will increase or decrease. our equation $a=\frac{0.1475}{m_{system}}0.969$. this equation has a negative, non linear relationship between the mass and its acceleration. meaning that we can view that as the mass of the cart on the track is increased, the acceleration itself is also decreasing. the mass and acceleration are inversely-proportional. 

	if we view our graph “hanging mass vs. acceleration -various track tilts forward”, we see that we have the linear lines. these data points come from our group gradually increasing the tilt of the angle by 0.3 cm each time. comparing each of these equations to the equations of those that are being tilted, we can see that the constant is no longer negative. this means, that the coefficient from our mathematical model is simply just the force of gravity on the hanging mass. the constant is some outside force, that when the model is tiled, is pushing our object now down the model, but also as we can see these numbers for the constants are extremely small. as our independent variable increases in value, the dependent variable will gradually increase as well. if these values approach 0 the potential of these numbers still have the ability to become positive. 
 group 3’s experiment consisted using a similar procedure that we had used. but, their increasing angle was opposite of ours. ours was to make the cart go down the incline while theirs was to go up. their data shows the angle has increased, and the constant that is adding more drag increases. which agrees with the data we use which is that as our angle for our experiment increased, our constant went up in the positive direction. some errors they may have experienced was the program we used to record data. the program was very old, and the pulley itself (in my own experience) would sometimes give off an error that would make us have to redo our data points for that incline. 

group 1’s experiment was a test that whether adding magnets to the cart will have some sort of correlation to any acceleration to the acceleration of the system. their results show that the increase in number of magnets that are on the carts, are directly proportional to the decrease in the constant in the mathematical model. considering our group did the experiment without magnets attached, it’s is very interesting to see that adding magnets to these carts affects them in this way. but some errors they could’ve possibly done, it seems that their constant is very similar but seems to increase, possibly it may be that they just added more mass to the cart which instead of having some sort of electrical field connection. 

some constraints that we had encountered were mainly technical errors. as originally stated when comparing data with group #3 the program we had used was very old, yet it is effective. but as we continued with multiple trials for each new incline, we were able to find a few bugs within the program. though these were irritating, we were still able to use the program to find the data we required. the real constraints that came from these experiments were along the lines of error; our error was either extremely small or completely non-existent (which is another reason that our error bars are completely invisible). 
	newtons second law states, “the acceleration of an object as produced by a net force is directly proportional to the magnitude of the net force, in the same direction as the net force, and inversely proportional to the mass of the object.” this statement in summary, states that the acceleration is produced by a net force and is proportional to the direction of our net force. this can be seen in almost all of these experiments we had conducted for this lab. for example, the incline plane. as the incline plane increased, the force of gravity on  the cart would also increase, therefore according to newtons second the acceleration increases proportionally to the force of gravity.  this can be seen in the results of group #3s results and our own results for lab 06.