discussion and conclusion

the goal of this lab 5 was to develop a model to describe the relation between applied force and acceleration and system mass and acceleration within a system.  the goal of lab 6 was to gain a better understanding of the variables and constants within the models that had been created.

within the first experiment of lab 5, a linear relation between applied force and acceleration was found in graph #1 by testing various applied forces on a cart while keeping the system mass consistent.  the model found was $a=2.6295 f - 0.0482$ where a is the acceleration, the first constant is based on the mass to convert from force to acceleration, f is the applied force, and the second constant is a factor to account for outside forces like track slope.  the second experiment of lab 5 found a power relationship between system mass and acceleration.  this model from graph #2 was $a=0.0144 m^{3.021}$ where a is acceleration and the first constant is a conversion factor that includes outside forces and converts kg to m/s^2.  the m is mass, and the second constant converts the mass into a different value based on applied force.  in lab 6, the first model was refined by finding the applied force/acceleration models at different track slopes.  the two models found from graphs #3 and #4 were $a=3.0709 f - 0.003$ and $a = 3.0709 f - 0.0382$ for a track height of 3 mm and 6.48 mm, respectively.  the takeaway from this is that the first constant stays the same, meaning it is independent of slope, while the second changes based on track height.  this can provide evidence that the second constant in the first model simply contributes to track slope, while the first constant is dependent on mass.

for lab 6, group 2 completed the same expiriment as our group, and their findings are similar to ours, where the constants are different, as can be expected with different masses and heights tested.  however, the same result can be found in that the first constant stays the same based off of mass, and the second changes based off of the slope.  group 4, however, did a separate expiriment to test if changing the mass would impact the model.  as can be shown by the results, increasing the mass lowers the first constant, which seems to coroborate the assumption that the first constant is related to mass. 
 
some errors may have been present along the course of this lab.  this was solved in later tests by widening the test ranges.  first, the accuracy of the model from experiment #2 is lower than the rest because the proximity of the data points was very close, which didn’t allow the model to really cover the whole spectrum.  in addition, some systematic errors could have been present throughout the labs, such as slight friction or air pressure force could have affected the restrictive force.  another error that was present in lab 5 but explored in lab 6 was the presence of a slope on the track.  everything was done to reduce these errors, however, as the track is essentially frictionless, the sir pressure would be minimal, and no other significant errors were present.

there are no main constraints to the generalizability of the models, as they appeared to work over all values.  the only possible constraint could be a difference in air pressure or a track with slightly less or more friction may impact the values, but for all reasonable purposes the models are entirely generalizable.

the first model fits exactly with newton’s second law, as $f=m a$ means that if mass is constant, acceleration and force rise linearly, just as shown in the model.  similarly, if force is constant, mass would have to increase with acceleration, as is shown in the second model.  these both line up perfectly with newton’s second law.