Discussion and Conclusion
The research question being “How does tilt affect the acceleration of a system?” is answered through the measurement of the independent variable (the tilt of the track, coupled with the control forces used with each tilt to create a force/acceleration equation) and the dependent variable (the acceleration.)
The experiment with hanging weight as the independent variable addressed the research question by showing that increased force increases the acceleration of the system.  Each of our graphs included multiple hanging weight values as the IV and the error bars were all too small to be seen.  As hanging weight increased acceleration increased.
The experiment with tilt as the independent variable and acceleration as the dependent variable which is shown through the four graphs addressed the research question by determining that tilt is a contributing factor to the acceleration of the system.  The experiment consisted of a frictionless track which was supported at the end that the force was being applied towards being raised.  The change in the y intercept between the graphs comes from the change of the tilt to the track.  As the tilt of the track increases the acceleration that the system exhibits decreases.
The findings of another group was that the placement of weights on a cart would affect the acceleration of its respective system.  However this hypothesis and its finding that the lower the weight on a cart the faster its acceleration does not coincide with anything we tested or found in our respective experiment.
The equations we found for each respective tilt value we measured in order of the graphs the correspond to above are is  $a = 3.008 f_{applied} -0.029$ at Zero Tilt, $a= 2.9863 f_{applied} -0.0388$ at 3.2mm Tilt, $a = 3.0286 f_{applied} -0.0611$ at 6.31mm Tilt, and $a = 3.0272 f_{applied} -0.0744$ at 9.51mm Tilt.
The scenario of a heavy string connecting the cart to the hanging weight would turn acceleration of the system from a constant to a positive slope.  This is because as more of the heavy string passed over the pulley and was acted on by gravity the acceleration of the system would increase.  The system would have a constant jerk.
Random error in the experiments was reduced by adding consistent masses every single time for each different tilt and it could be reduced even more if there was a lack of air resistance acting on the system which would require for the experiment to be performed inside of a vacuum chamber.
The constraints of the experiment were the lack of a digital protractor which could measure the angle of tilt to a degree.   This constraint affects the generalizability of the results by impacting the reliability of the experiment’s findings.
