discussion and conclusion: 

how does the mass, length, and angle of a pendulum affect its period?



in each of our trial we made the period of the pendulum the dependent variable because our research question asked how the period is affected.  for the first experiment our independent variable was the length of string, while the controls were the weight and release angle.  our claim for this experiment was that the length of the pendulum would positively affect the period.  while performing this trial we kept the angle at about thirty degrees and the weight at 120 grams.  initially we recorded the experiment with stop watches at several different lengths and found that our data had a positive correlation.  we then recorded it with a photogate sensor to get more accurate measurements. with the photogate data we came up with a more accurate graph that had a power curve trend.  with the data collected we were able to conclude that our prediction was correct.



for the second experiment our independent variable was the angle that the pendulum was released at and the controls were the weight and length of the pendulum.  our claim for this experiment was that the weight of the pendulum does not affect the period.  the controls were set to 120 grams and 50 cm.  for this experiment we also recorded the data using stop watches at several different angles, but we then found that there was no correlation in the graph. since we did not find a correlation we did not perform this experiment using the photogate senser as we deemed it not necessary.  as a result, our claim was correct.

for the third and final experiment our independent variable was the weight and our controls were the length and angle of the pendulum.  for this experiment our claim was that the weight has no correlation with the period of the pendulum.  for the controls, they put at 30 degrees and 50 cm.  once again, we recorded this experiment was recorded using stop watches at several different weights.  when look at the data on the graph there was no correlation found, which also resulted us in not performing this experiment in the photogate sensor.  with this data we were able to conclude that our claim was correct.
since we ran the first experiment through the photogate sensor we were able to obtain much more accurate data.  when observing the graph for this experiment the error bars were almost not even visible.  the formula that we were about to come up with using excel was $t=0.1168549 x$ which had a r squared value of 0.9997.  this value indicates how close to perfect the data was to the trendline.  the theoretical formula we calculated for the period was $t=0.1003 x$.  this theoretical formula is fairly similar to the formula that our data point created.  we were able to conclude that the period of a pendulum has power curve relationship.
due to the fact that we determined that weight and angle had no correlation in affecting the period of a pendulum we are able to eliminate them from the photogate sensor experiment.  we are able to come to this conclusion because the r squared values were not close to one meaning that the data points were not close to the best fit line.  also, for both graph the error bars overlapped each other and this means that we are not able to confidently say the point changed.
during this lab there were serval possible errors noted.  those uncertainties were mainly human errors in our measurements.  a random error for the first lab period was that we were required you record the period of the pendulum with stop watches, and with this we had to eyeball when the pendulum finished its swings.  this easily resulted in the period not being accurate.  to combat this, we had everyone in the group recording the time, and we also had multiple trials done to make sure that our data was at least consistent.  another random error that occurred is when measuring the angle and length of the pendulum the measurement could have not been perfectly accurate.  the only way to reduce the possibility of this happening is to make sure that the measurements were as close to the desired measurements as possible.  a possible systematic error that could have occurred was not having the scale perfectly zeroed, which would result in slightly off measurements in weight throughout the experiment.  in order to reduce this error we could have used multiple scales to measure our weight and taken the average from the scales.  
one constraint that we had was that the stand that held up the string for our pendulum could only go up so high.  if were able to put it higher and add more length to the string, then the range of our results would be much larger.  one other constraint that we had was that we were limited on the amount of weight that we could put onto the pendulum.  this would not give us a larger range of result, rather it would further prove that the weight of the pendulum does not affect the period.