discussion and conclusion

the three factors that were agreed to be tested to address the research question were mass of the pendulum, length of the pendulum, and the angle that the pendulum was released from.  while there are other factors that could influence the period, these were the three chosen to be tested in lab (other factors discussed below).

for the first test, a pendulum with a consistent length was swung from the same angle multiple times, each time with varying masses attached to the bottom (multiple tests for each mass).  the time it took the pendulum to complete the period was recorded, the dependent variable. for the second, a pendulum was swung from the same angle multiple times, with a fixed mass secured to the end, but with varying string length.  the time was recorded as the dependent variable.  in the third test, the period was tested multiple times by a pendulum with a certain mass and certain length, while varying the angle that it was released from.

this data was then plotted on graphs (figures 1-3).  error bars of 2 sigma were then added to the graphs to draw conclusions.  the space between the error bars around each point represent where 95% of the data could fall each time the same variable is tested.  based on this graphed data, and by looking at the overlapping error bars, it was concluded that only the length of the pendulum affected its period.  in figure 1, the first two error bars overlap almost completely – this means that, while the individual points are different values, the data of the two measurements has a 95% chance of being the same when tested multiple times.  the third point falls outside the error bars of the other points, but this could be a result of random error (discussed below).  in figure 3, all of the error bars overlap with each other.  this means the same thing as stated above.  however, in figure 2, it is clear that none of the points have close error bars.  since there is no overlap and the data is spread far apart, it can be concluded that each point doesn’t have any chance of being another point – each data point can be considered unique and its own.  thus, only the length of the pendulum affects the period.

it is important to note that these claims can only certainly be made with length < or equal 1.5m, mass < or equal.25kg, and angles < or equal 30 degrees.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=2 \pi \left(\frac{l}{g}\right)^{0.5}$ where t is measured in seconds, l in meter, and g in m/s^2.  after determining that length is the only factor that influences period, more tests were run with that variable, and the data was plotted in figure 4.  this gave us our mathematical model of a power curve which is $t=2.13272 l^{0.362}$.  our data fits the general form of the theoretical model in the fact that they are both power curves and have length (l) as a variable, however the values are slightly different.  in our representation, the coefficient never changes; however, for the theoretical model, the coefficient is determined by the length.  this would make the theoretical model more effective in calculating the exact value.  not present in our model or model or the theoretical one is mass or angle.  this further supports the claim that neither of those factors have an influence on a pendulum’s period.  ours also has no way to take gravity (g) into account, which is somewhere that it is lacking. we did not have the chance to test gravity due to classroom restrictions, but it is a factor that would, according to the theoretical model, also affect the period of the pendulum.  if a pendulum swung somewhere with a smaller downward acceleration due to gravity, like the moon, we would assume that the period would be longer than if gravity was higher because the factor g is on the bottom of the equation.  however, gravity is not a factor we can confidently make a claim about due strictly to our set of data and experiments.

because the experiment was well controlled, lab instruments were used and reused carefully, and uncertainties of the equipment was known, the kind of error we encountered was random.  the biggest source of error was the timer, which was a big deal because it measured the dependent variable.  in order to reduce the amount of error in the data collection, we switched from using a human and a stop watch to a photogate to measure the period.  the average reaction time for a person with visual stimulation is .25 seconds and the uncertainty of the stopwatch was .01seconds, whereas the uncertainty of a photogate is .001 seconds.  using this method took our data from a linear curve (human and stopwatch) to a power function (photogate) that was much more similar to the theoretical model. 

the biggest constraint upon our generalization is the presence of gravity.  our claim is that the length of a pendulum is the only factor that affects the period of a pendulum, but that only works in conditions with a constant gravity.  similarly, if any of the controls go above the previously listed conditions, our claim will have no merit as we cannot confidently state what will or will not happen.