conclusion:
Over the course of three sessions, the lab group of Ana Moreno-Garza, Alexander Myles, Mike Brassfield, and Eden Flowers conducted experiments to determine what factors influence the period of a pendulum. The factors examined included the length of the pendulum from the fulcrum to the center of mass of the bob, the mass of the bob, and the initial angle of the pendulum. 
The group’s tested hypotheses were that length, release angle, and mass had an effect on the period of a pendulum. The predictions were that only length had an effect, and that release angle and mass had no effect. The first factor examined was angle of release, this was done by using a fixed length of 0.405 m and a bob mass of 0.110 kg. Analysis of the data indicated release angle wasn’t a factor, and therefore was not controlled during the other tests. A pendulum length of 0.405 m was once again used when testing the effect of mass, and a mass of 0.110 kg was used when testing the effects of length. 

The data found shows that mass and angle do not provide much of a difference in the period, while length of string does. This is supported by the fact that the two slopes for the best fit lines in Angle vs. Period and Mass vs. Period are very close to zero, while the slope for the Length vs. Period is 1.3606 with an R-squared value of 0.9907 indicating a close relation with the data. All points for the angles and mass trials fell within their associated error bars (< 2 sigma), whereas the points for the length trials are significantly different (> 2 sigma). The final theoretical equation, generated during a second trial using a photogate for precise timing, was found to be 

with an r-squared value of 0.9999 indicating a near perfect fit to the data.
Sources of error include starting and stopping the stopwatch, and measuring the distance, mass, and release angle of the pendulum. Other factors that may affect the period of the pendulum could include air pressure, energy loss or gain from the apparatus, and the local gravitational constant. This experiment only concerned itself with small angles, masses and lengths (< 30°, < 1 kg, and < 2 m respectively), testing these factors outside these constraints may show an effect.