discussion and conclusion:

this experiment was conducted and executed with the intent to find what factors impact the period of a pendulum. at the beginning of this experiment the factors that were to be tested were decided upon is  mass, length, and angle. in each of the above test one factor was tested as the other two remained the same allowing conclusion to be made about how that one variable affect the period of a pendulum. 

	the mass test was conducted be having the string length fixed at 50cm, to the of the center of mass, and it was released at a constant angle of 15 degrees, from vertical. the mass was then changed to different values (as seen in table 4 above) as the other variables remained the same, the time of a period recorded into table 4. after looking at the data and then plotting it in a scatter plot (graph 1), a conclusion was made that the mass does not influence the period of a pendulum. this conclusion was made because the slope of the line of best fit on this graph was essentially zero. also, the error bars for each point all overlapped. with this piece of information, we are not able to conclude that there is a difference in the period when the mass is changed. 

	the angle test was conducted in a similar way to the mass test. the mass was held constant at 109.8 grams and the length was 50cm. the angle, from vertical, was then changed and the time of the pendulum was recorded (table 5). graph 2 was created using the data from table 5. this graph shows that the angle of release does affect the period of the pendulum, but time is not affected in any significant way until the angle is above 30degrees. the error bars on the first two trials overlap but when comparing the test where the angle was 5 degrees and 40 degrees there is a significance difference in time. 

	the length test was conducted with one variable changing, length, while mass and angle were held constant. mass was held constant at 109.8 grams while the angle of release was 15 degrees from vertical.  the lengths tested ranged from 30 cm to 180cm, as seen in table 6. graph 3 shows a strong positive relationship between the increase in the length of the pendulum to increase in the period. this relationship can be seen in graph 3. the error bars are very small on this graph and have no overlap, allowing for the conclusion, despite uncertainty, that length does affect the period of a pendulum. 

	the theoretical mathematical model for a pendulum based on our data is

 

as seen in the theoretical model mass and angle do not determine the amount time it takes for one period to be complete. our data supports this because the models for both mass and angle have a slope with little significance or zero. as the graphs 1-3 above show length was the only factor that showed a significant correlation between itself and the time. 

	one of the random errors which was very prominent in the early stages of this lab was the time keeping, which was being done by a human and a stop watch. by the end of the lab a photogate was being used to track the time of the pendulum swing. systematic error that were present included uncertainty in the triple scale balance, photogate, and tape measure. nothing could be done to reduce these errors. during this experiment the main constraint was that different shapes were not used as the mass, so air resistance could not be factored in the model. as a result, we cannot say this equation will work for every pendulum of all different shapes without more testing. another constrain is that because angle needs to be under 30 degrees because after that our data shows that angle does start to affect the period length.