
Discussion and Conclusion:
	When preforming this lab, we were trying to develop mathematical models that would fit a real-life situation. The behavior of the cart changed though put the experiment based upon the weight/ mass of the bobbers. In Lab 6 we tried developing understandings of the variables and numerical values in the experiment. When conducting these experiments in lab 05 and lab 06 we came up with mathematical models and graphs for our data. These mathematical models were found when we did our tables, we came up with values based on the numbers the computer gave us and followed equations to help us come up with our graphs and tables. When you look at the graph for the experiments you can visually see the relationship between the data that we were finding from the computer. The mathematical model and the graphs represent the direct results of each other. When looking at the data that we collected we can conclude that as the acceleration was increasing the force applied was increasing creating a direct relationship between the two. For the second experiment we can conclude that as the mass increases the acceleration decreases and we can see this in the graph with the slow curve down.   
	These two whiteboards form other groups help support the same evidence that we found. The one on the left side states that force applied is positively correlated to the acceleration of the system which supports the same thing that we found. With other groups finding the same thing that we did it can reassure that this coloration is true between Force applied and Acceleration. The whiteboard on the right is the experiment that we did not do. These results can contribute to our results because we can use this evidence and conclusion to father prove our own claims and findings because then we would have been able to add more evidence to our data that we could not provide by ourselves. 
	Errors occur in every experiment, some errors that we could run into was both systematic and random, some errors we ran into was when we started the air track and the time it took to start the data collector. This error was small but could throw our results of enough to mess up the data a little bit but no enough to change the correlation. Other errors we could have ran into were mathematical errors and rounding. If we round, then we will not get very exact answers but just like before this error is so small that it will not mess up the data enough to skew it. To reduce the error of rounding we could choose a decimal place to round to and round to that every time. For the timing part we could do like a countdown to help us try and get more exact.
	Some constraints we ran into was time, only 2 class periods to collect data and analyze it and turn it into graphs and mathematical models. Another constraint was that we only had a certain amount of materials to do the experiments. If we had more weights for the car or for the bobbers, we could have tested more extreme values which would bring out the trend and make it easier for us to notice the trends the data was giving us.
	The two experiments can be related to newtons second law because in lab 5 when we were testing acceleration vs force applied, the mass was constant so when the force applied increase then then the Force applied increase and if you manipulate the $F=m a$ formula you can see that this would indeed make sense. The same goes for when we kept the force applied the same and change the mass of the cart around, we could see the acceleration decrease which when you manipulate that same formula you can see how that would make sense. $F=m a$ can be manipulated in a lot of was to show us the relationships between mass and force applied and acceleration. These are very interchangeable to find the other. Based on this lab we can fully understand newtons second law and how it works through real life experiences which we then backed up with mathematical models to prove why it works. All in all we can conclude that $F=m a$ will allow us to find relationships between the three variables very easily.
