discussions and conclusions:
a. the purpose of this lab was to develop mathematical models for two different factors that we thought would affect the acceleration of the vehicle. this would describe the true behavior of the system of the car in lab 05. in lab 06 we tested how other different factors may affect the system as well, this included friction as well as other factors we may not have thought about while conducting the lab, like the angle of the track for example.

b.  the three experiments from lab 05 and lab 06 led to a resulting mathematical model that showed us how certain factors can change the acceleration in a system. in the first test we tested mass and noticed that as you add more mass the acceleration of the system would decrease each time. in the second test we test the force applied and as more force was applied the acceleration got faster and faster. finally, we tested how the friction affected the acceleration of the system and noticed that the more friction we had the smaller the acceleration was. the final model showed us that the acceleration changes depending on both the mass, applied force, as well as other outside forces change.

c. team 2 data                                                                                   team 1 data 

the results of these other groups data go along with what we found in our trials. as you can see from their data there is a linear relationship between acceleration and different forces. also, we can note that the change in the tilt of the track has a factor on that of the acceleration of the vehicle in the system.

d. the errors that could have occurred in our labs included an unlevel track, this would be considered and would be considered random error. we can assume that kept the track at the same angle every time, but in our first tests we didn’t account for this and it clearly has an effect of the acceleration of the system. another factor of error could have been the bobbers that we used having different weights. we assumed that all the bobbers would have the same mass, but this may not have been true which be a random error and could throw off our acceleration by a tiny amount. to reduce both we could make sure that we level the track before doing our trials, as well as, making sure to weigh out each bobber to ensure the mass of the system is true.

e. some constraints that we had in the experiment that may limit the generalizability of our results included the length of the track that we had to use. since we were only able to test on a certain distance of the track, we reduced the amount of the time/ distance that we were able to take the average of the acceleration, when calculating the equation for the linear graph that was presented as it accelerated. another limit that we had was mass that we were using to change force applied were very small, although practical, we could have used something that would have added more force applied, seeing a more drastic change, highlighting how the acceleration is affected each time.

f. the reason that i can be sure in saying that the two experimental mathematical models that we created are consistent with newton’s second law is for one main reason. looking at the equation , we can see that the there is a correlation between how the mass of the system and acceleration are used to calculate the sum of the forces. while using this equation as your mass rises then the acceleration will go down. this is also true for the other way around as well, as the mass goes down, the acceleration of the system goes up. this is due to the system making sure that the sum of the forces is consistent throughout the entire system.