conclusion and discussion

	these experiments were conducted to investigate the research question, which is what impacts the period of a pendulum. the mass vs period experiment attempted to determine whether mass has an impact on the period. the hypothesis was that the mass would have an impact on the period, however this proved to be false. looking at figure 1, the trend line has a very poor correlation to the data (r^2  is 0.0004) and many of the error bars across the data set overlap. so from the graph, it is reasonable to conclude that mass has negligible impact on the period of a pendulum.

	the angle vs period experiment attempted to determine whether angle has an impact on the period. the hypothesis was that the angle will have an impact on the period. looking at figure 3, the trendline for angle vs period is somewhat strong with an r^2 value of 0.6329. however, many of the error bars across the data set overlap. so it can be concluded that the hypothesis is false and that angle and period have negligible correlation. 

	the length vs period experiment attempted to determine whether string length has an impact on the period. the hypothesis was that the angle will have an impact on the period. looking at figure 5, some of the error bars overlap, however across the data set it is clear that there is some positive correlation. this is further reinforced by the strong r^2 value of 0.9531. because there was a strong possibility of a correlation, length vs period was investigated further, using more precise measuring tools to get more precise data. looking at figure 7, the error bars have zero overlap, and the r^2 value is very strong at 0.9992. from this, it is reasonable to conclude that string length and period have positive correlation. the experimental mathematical model for this relationship is . 

the theoretical mathematical model is  where t is the period and l is the length. mass and angle are nowhere to be found in the theoretical model, so we were correct in concluding that they have no effect. our experimental model was surprisingly close with l being raised to the 0.4529 power instead of the 0.5 power and the coefficient is 2.584 when the theoretical coefficient is 2.006. 

	when testing mass, angle, and length (the first time) there was plenty of error. the string length was measured with a simple tape measurer which is prone to random human error; the mass was broken up into similar 20g disks which could contribute to systematic error if all the disks where wrong in the same way; the angle was measured with a simple protractor which was difficult to read at times causing lots of random human error; the time was measured with a stopwatch, which probably caused the most random error. even for testing the mass and angle, which should be the same time, times varied wildly, which is indicative of random human error. the time measurement the greatly improved when testing length and period the second time, where a time gate measured the time between period swings to a surprising accuracy. the random error in that experiment can be mostly attributed to measuring the string lengths. 

	the experimental model has some restraints. the gravitational force remained constant which we cannot generalize the theoretical equation. air resistance and resistance between parts supporting the pendulum also were not considered, so more testing would need to be to determine how to generalize the model.