discussion and conclusion:

the purpose of the lab is to develop mathematical models which describe the behavior of a real system, and to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value included in the model.

the first mathematical model for lab 5 was derived by finding the acceleration of a cart on a metal air track versus the mass of the cart, whilst the mass of the hanging objects and the force of air is held constant. the acceleration of the cart at different masses was recorded using a computer photogate system attached to the track. a graph was then prepared using microsoft excel that displayed acceleration vs mass of the cart. using excel, an equation of the line between the points was prepared, and this equation represents our mathematical model. we are very confident in our data, as all of our points were within the error limits, and when the equivalency criterion is applied, all of our data remains again within the limits. we determined that the .18 value in front of the x is roughly equivalent to the value of 1 / mass of the system. x was determined to be the acceleration. the exponent was close enough to one that we decided that it is an error value, which will be discussed later.  we came to the conclusion that this is correct as our first value which was present in our mathematical model was almost identical to the value of 1/mass of the system, which would be compliant with the theoretical models. in addition, the constant exponent is close enough to one that the number will alter very slightly, and we attribute this to error in the experiment, as it is too small to greatly affect the system and would be compliant with the theoretical model.

for the second model of lab 5, it was found the same way using the same method, however, this time the mass of the hanging bob was changed and various masses were utilized, whilst the mass of the art and the air power remained constant. as before, a graph is prepared using the data previously gathered, and the equation of the graph is the mathematical model. we are very confident in our data, as all of our points were within the error limits, and when the equivalency criterion is applied, all of our data remains again within the limits the value of .1371 in front of the x value we found to also be roughly 1 / the mass of the system, and thus we decided that it is representative of 1 / the mass of the system, which is in line with theoretical models. x was found to be the mass of the bobbers. the constant is so small, that we determine that it has to be some kind of additional error value, which will be discussed later. just as above, the constant represents the untested error, we believe, that had a minor impact on the acceleration of the cart.

as for the final mathematical model, it was derived by keeping the air power, mass of the cart and the mass of the hanging bobbers constant, whilst the tilt of the air track was increased for each trial. at the end, as above, our data was turned into a graph using microsoft excel. the equation derived using excel is the mathematical model. we are very confident in our data, as all of our points were within the error limits, and when the equivalency criterion is applied, all of our data remains again within the limits the 2.8 value in front of the x was determined to be a combination of mass of the cart and the mass of the bobbers, or more specifically 1 / mass of each system. x is the mass of the total system, and the constant is the error attributed to the slant of the track.  sure enough, as the slant increased, the value of the constant similarly became more negative, whilst the value of the x remained constant at 2.8. this reinforced our theory that the small constant value is the error of the slope of the track being added to the system.
all  of the groups that similarly  received the nearly exactly the same results as ours. virtually all of their equations were in the area of 2.8x and included a very small constant being subtracted from the system. this is far from coincidence. this reassures us that our data is accurate. every one of these equations has a very similar number in front of the x, whilst the negative constant at the end continuously increases in negativity as the slant of the track increases. therefore, the decimal represents the error that is present in the slanting of the track. group 5 for instance, also had a 2.8 value (different due to conversion of units), and a negative constant that increased with the slant, as did group 3, both seen in the above pictures. 

some errors which may have been present is the friction of the air track. though other groups did, as present above, we did not investigate the material of the track, nor the friction present. this could have influenced our values. another error which was present was disclosed above, that being the error in measuring the mass and acceleration of the system, being +- 0.5 and +- 0.01 respectively. these errors could have influenced our data, but not enough to truly shift our values too far in either direction. in order to combat these errors, several trials were conducted for each value of mass and height. these values were then averaged together before being used on our final data.

some constraints in this experiment that may limit the generalizability of our experiment was the range of data used. we were only able to utilize 3 different track heights, that being from 0 to 12 mm added. the answer could change drastically as further heights are added, but we do not know. another constraint here was the range of mass values we were able to utilize. we were only able to test a select amount of masses, for both the bobber and the mass of the cart. the data may very well change drastically when masses above our range were utilized, but we cannot know for certain. 

our experimental models are consistent with $f=m a$ newtons second law, in that all of our forces acting on the cart were accounted for in some way. the theoretical equation for acceleration by a single force is $a =\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$. we were able to determine how the mass of the cart and bobber as well as the height of the track combined to affect the acceleration of the cart in their own ways, and the variables and values they would change. the mathematical model which we determined came down to $a = c1 x + c2$.  for instance, we found that as the track tilted up, the constant negative increased, and thus slowed down the acceleration of the cart. this is further consistent with $f=m a$, as the force acting on the cart increased, causing the a to have to decrease as the mass, m, is held constant. we also found that the numbers in front of each x for lab 5’s experiments, c1 in our mathematical model, were very similar to 1/ the mass of the system, making it very in line with the theoretical equation. similarly, as the mass increased, such as the mass of the cart, but the force was held constant, the acceleration had to similarly decrease, as is evident by the decreasing acceleration as the mass of the cart increases. therefore, our data is consistent with $f=m a$. when two or more forces are acting on the system, the enhanced theoretical equation for acceleration is $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$. for the final experiment, lab 6’s, our mathematical equation was once more found to be c1x + c2. the value in front of our x, our c1 value, turned out to be very similar, if not exactly equal, to f/mass of the cart + f/mass of the bobbers. this in turn is inline with the theoretical model, as those are the two forces acting on the system. meanwhile, the constant, our c2, being so small and increasing greatly as the tilt is increased whilst c1 remains the same, doubly proves our point of c2 being the error of the slant of the track. thus, with that small constant error disregarded, we can safely say that our equation is inline with the enhanced theoretical equation for acceleration, $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$

in the scenario of a heavy string connecting the hanging weight with the cart, we predict that the acceleration would increase. we predict this because a heavier string means more mass is pulling on the cart and thus increasing the force acting on the cart. if this occurs whilst the mass of the cart is held constant, then in order to obey newton’s law, the acceleration would have to increase in order to remain equal to the growing force. therefore, a heavy string connecting the cart to the weight would increase the acceleration.