conclusion:
our first experiment posed the question, “how does the acceleration of a system change when force changes?”. the mass added is the hanging weight, which in this experiment serves as our force that we are changing. we found that force and acceleration are directly correlated with a direct, positive relationship. this can be observed through the data given under the “force applied to the cart v. acceleration of the cart” graph above. the data shows that as the applied force increases so does the acceleration. the error, given with in the data, further proves that there is a correlation between the force and acceleration. from this test we received our equation to be $y = 2.6358 x + 0.4012$ r² is 0.9999, which describes the acceleration of a system by a single force, the hanging mass.

		also, in the first experiment we were faced with the questions, “how does the acceleration of a system change when mass changes?”. in this experiment we added weight to our system to test the variables correlation. we concluded that the mass and acceleration have an inverse, negative correlation. as the mass increases, the acceleration decreases, this can be seen in the data given under the “mass of the system v. acceleration of the system” graph. the error given in the data further the point that there is a correlation. the equation we made to describe the acceleration of a system by more than one force, that force being the mass added, was $y = 0.1936 x-1.546$ r² is 0.9758.

		in the second experiment we were given the question of, “how does the acceleration of a system change when the amount of friction in the system (force applied) changes?”. to do this experiment we tested three scenarios is  adding no magnets, adding one set of magnets, and adding two sets of magnets, which was our friction. after performing each test with changing the applied force, changing the hanging weight like in experiment one to stand as our force on the system, we concluded that there was no relation between the friction and acceleration on the system. we compared our results to group 2, who tested the friction as well. after an analysis of their data, we found that our result was similar to our group’s and that our conclusion still stood. we also compared our data to group 3, which furthered our understanding of the system we were testing. in this experiment we came up with three equations to describe each scenario. the first being the acceleration of a system by more than one force with out any magnets was $y= 1.8112 x-0.1093$ r2 is 0.9979. the second equation described the acceleration of a system by more than one force with one set of magnets was $y= 1.6571 x-0.0584$ r2 is 0.9976. the last equation we found described the acceleration of a system by more than one force with two sets of magnets was $y= 1.638 x-0.0035$ r2 is 0.9959.														
the random errors with in lab 005 and lab 006 could be from the machinery not being correct. the photogate could have not been set up correctly or may have taken false data which would cause our data to be not correct which would produce differing values for the same test taken multiple times. the triple beam balance may have not given the correct weight for our system or for the bobbers, which would have caused the data collected to be wrong or using the instrument wrong would have caused a systematic error. another error may have been caused by when using the magnets. not putting them on correctly could have caused them to repel each other changing the outcomes of the trials. during some trials, the system moved slowly which caused an error in the data that had to be removed.

	one of the biggest constraints was during lab 006. there was not enough time for the entirety of the experiment to be completed by each group alone. so, the trials were split up between all the groups in pairs of two. this limited the amount of data complied that could be utilized in comparison of results. instead of having multiple groups data to compare to, there was only one other group testing what our group was testing that we had to rely on. time was a constraint also in lab 005, if more time was given in the laboratory the ability to minimize random errors would be attainable. other constraints had to do with utilizing instruments in the lab, we had to rely on what we are provided even if those tools had been worn out or were not working properly.
