discussion and error

      a. the research question being investigated in this lab is “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?”.

      b.  in lab 1 we developed and elaborated on the three factors by using experimental design templates and testing all three factors using five trials. during this experiment we would change the values of the ivs (mass, angle, and length) after every trial to truly determine which of the three factors did in fact affect the period of a pendulum. from lab 01 alone we determined that the only iv that affected the period of the pendulum was the length of the string. we could determine this by looking at the graphs that were created and observing the correlation between said graphs. the mass versus time graph and the angle versus time graph showed no correlation at all where the length versus time graph showed a positive correlation (as length increased the period increased). 

in lab 2 we determined the amount of error that was present amongst the three independent variables. in this lab period we also tested the period of the pendulum with ten trials but kept every iv constant. we kept the mass at 50g, length at 42cm, and the angle of release at 30 degrees. this helped us find out the standard deviation which helped us back up the claim that the only iv that impacted the period of the pendulum is the length of the string. a change we made in our graphs during lab 2 was that we added error bars to all of them. our error bars were too small to see with only one sigma, so we ended up using two sigma which allowed us to have a confidence level of 95% and indicated that the true value is very likely to lie within the range of uncertainty. 

finally, we did lab 3 where we tested the lone independent variable that did in fact affect the period of the pendulum which was the length of the string. this time to create an even more accurate set of data we used a photogate that timed the period of the pendulum. this reduced some human error that occurred when we timed the periods ourselves. based off the graph created with the photogate we had an even more linear relationship between our points and brought our r^2 value even closer to 1.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is . in this equation t is the time in seconds for the pendulum to go through one complete swing (pendulum period). l is the is the pendulum length of the length of the string that is connected to the pendulum itself and g is the acceleration due to gravity in the y-direction. as stated previously the only independent variable that affected the period of the pendulum was the length of the string. in this equation it is backed up because the l is the length of the string and can possibly be the only thing that affects the period. nowhere in the equation is it asking for the mass of the weight or the angle in which you release the weight. not only does the equation not ask for the mass or the angle, but our research that we concluded from the experiments also backs this claim. the theoretical equation is a square root or power function which is exactly what our line of best fits equation is in our length versus time graph.

 in the experiments we conducted there were multiple systematic and random errors. to start off we had a random error when it came to the timing in the three experiments. this could have resulted from different reflexes by the timers and releasing the weight too early or too late for the timer. another random error that could have occurred is when we were dropping the weight from a specific angle. it was very difficult for the person holding the weight to release it at the desired angle every time which would end up skewing some data. the random errors that accumulated could have affected the data in a positive or negative way. now on to reducing the random errors. there are two potential ways of limiting the random error. our first potential way is by simply accumulating more data and performing more trials and calculating the mean value of all those trials. the second potential way would be by reducing the amount of human involvement which we did in the third experiment by using the photogate. if we wanted to have a more precise experiment two, we could have used the photogate when determining the standard deviation and error. two of the experimental errors that could arise are from the tape measure and stopwatch. if tape measure or the stopwatch were to be out of calibration it would have shifted our data from the true value. to ensure that this would not happen, more accurate tools can be used.

in the experiment there were a couple constraints that could have a negative affect on the results. when we were testing the change in the angle, we made it the value too small and it quite difficult to release it at the desired angle we chose. secondly was by using the stopwatch for lab 1 and 2. if we had used the photogate for all three trials in lab 1 then we would have had more accurate times which would have improved our data points and lines of best fit.