discussion of data:

the mathematic model for the data is $a = 0.0277 mass +0.0156$ ($y = 0.0277 x+ 0.0156$). when the iv increases the dv will also increase, weight increases the acceleration of the system. the mathematical uncertainty was given for the pulley measuring the acceleration of the system, its uncertainty is 0.001 m/s^2, when this value is applied to the graph above, its error bars are too small to see. 

the mathematic model for the data is $a = 1.0313e^{-0.002} m$ ($y = 1.0313 e^{-0.002x}$). when the iv increases the dv will decrease, weight of the sled decreases the acceleration of the system. the mathematical uncertainty was given for the pulley measuring the acceleration of the system, its uncertainty is 0.001 m/s^2, when this value is applied to the graph above, its error bars are too small to see. 

the setup was identical to the previous lab 05 setup except for the angle that the track was sitting on was changed in each direction, at the front and back of the track. 


how does the acceleration of a system change when weight changes and angle of platform changes?
mass of bob and acceleration
controlled variables are the friction of the track, length of string and weight of sled. 
increase of mass will increase acceleration along with the increase of angle in the other direction of the sled’s movement. the acceleration will decrease when the angle is increased in the same direction of the sled. 
the graph will have a positive slope in relation to weight, but have an inverse relationship with the angle as its increased on the side that the sled is going, and a positive relationship when the angle is increasing in the opposite direction of the sleds movement. 
with the change in angle as the iv that was tested we observed that the angle does have a significant effect in the acceleration of the system. when the angle was increased in the front of the track the sled was slightly slowed down, slowing down the acceleration of the system. when the angle at the back of the track was increased the sled’s acceleration increased due to sliding down an incline, this increased the acceleration of the system as well. 
	the primary purpose of this lab is to develop mathematic models to determine the behavior of a system. through testing how an iv affects the behavior of a dv we can observe and make conclusions that prove our hypothesis. when understanding variables in a mathematic model it is necessary to test how each part of the model effects the system. if you are given a model then you can test the various parts of the equation and how it effects the system, but if you are given a scenario then you must test each variable and form an equation from your experiments. 

through testing each iv and how effects the dv we took the acceleration of the system and plotted it. when plotting this data we can formulate the mathematic model by forming a slope from our data. when using a line of best fit from excel, the equation of the line of best fit is the mathematic model that fits our data. the y value of each model represents the acceleration of the system (dv), the x value of the equations given is the mass of the sled or bob for experiment 5. experiment 6 is still similar, with the x value being the mass of the bob changing, but there are 3 values graphed, one for each angle change in each direction. 
errors that were and could be encountered that may impact the system are is  friction of the pulley (inconsistency’s in other setups), air resistance, levelness of the track. these errors that can be encountered will all be systematic because the errors are kept relatively the same throughout the experiment. however, when it comes to repeating this data on a different setup, the results may eb slightly skewed due to these factors. ways to eliminate them could be lubricating the bearings used in the pulley, leveling out the track after each run, and performing the experiment in a vacuum. 
constraints that limit the generalizability of the results from this lab are the ability to repeat data, interpretation of the instructions, and the execution of performing the experiment. all of these factors effect the outcome of the lab and it’s data.
the mathematic models that came from our data are consistent with newton’s second law, , with the force applied being the mass of the bobber being multiplied by 9.8 m/s^2. then using our formulas that were derived from the data you can calculate the acceleration from a given mass (force applied) to find the acceleration of the system. the models are an accurate representation of the data from the experiment and can be used to calculate a wide variety of values.