conclusion:
Does the mass of m-cart and m-bob impact on acceleration of the system?
We start the experiment with adding weight on the m-cart, as we add more weight on m-cart, acceleration decrease, and it came to stop once we reach the max. On the second experiment we kept the same weight on m-cart but we add m-bob each time therefore each time we add m-bob acceleration increase, it do to having more tension when it was without any tension force it was force but when we add 2 m-bob it was double the acceleration of the system because it had twice the tension force. 
 
Handing weight had the positive affect on acceleration, each time we add more m-bob to string acceleration increase due to tension getting increase. It was as tension $T- M G = M V^2$, so when we add more weight tension increase. It shows on the on our result on figure 2 and 4. Where we got a positive correlation between independent and dependent variable. Friction did have negative impact on acceleration of system, but it just made it to shrink and it wasn’t fast as with no friction because friction always works the opposite of acceleration. For example, if you kick soccer back on the ground and it will stop in few second because friction will loss down the ball from keep it going. Error bars are included but too small to see 0.001, it was just a human error. 

Other groups finding support our result, as you can see on the figure 6. Friction had negative impact on C2 which as the acceleration. The m-cart wasn’t moving until we have lager amount of tension force from m-bob. In their equation it shows that they got about -.0074 and we got -.0075 acceleration being decrease from the friction when we add magnate on m-cart. 
Even the second group still supporting our finding. We all know there was more force was involved than just friction, second group they did their experiment on incline to see how the acceleration of system was affect, it came out the similar result. Is this cause angle was the independent variable and dependent variable was the system acceleration, when they did no angle here was any impact as we got with 0 magnate. Than we did 1 magnet there was decrease in acceleration as it did when they did 30-degree angle. But when they did 60 degree it was between no angle it was same result as we got from 2 magnate as it just shrinks. They got their y-vale to be -0.0132 and we got -0.0074 with graph being negative correlation between independent variable and dependent variable. 
C1 is the constant, obtained from our line of best fit, which represents the mass of the system, without the hanging mass added, which is represented by F. The value for C1 based on the lab set up was 19.66 and our obtained C1 value was between 17.128 and 18.565, which is relatively close. In the theoretical equation we do force divided by mass of the system to get the acceleration.  But in experiment model we do C1 times w add C2 to get acceleration. C1 was constant it was the m-cart, w was the force that was being able and c2 was the tension and weight of the m-bob. It did support our experiment because it clear when you increase in C2 mass acceleration will increase if C1 is constant.   Our R-squared value was .995 or above so there was just .005 error which we known as human error. It will happen when we when do experiment and when we get a theoretical because in theoretical it doesn’t include human error so if we get about .005 error, it counts are reliable result. 
C2 represents the constant for downward force in newtons. We obtain that from our line of best fit. Our values were 0.0074, 0.0263, and 0.0201. Our data matches very well with the other groups who got values of 0.0075, 0.0198, and 0.0285. we can get acceleration when we do force divided mass of the system add force of friction divided by mass of system. They had smiler R-squared which was above .995 when we did the most fit trendlines. 
We had predicted correct because we know if m-cart is constant and if we just adding m-bobs which is hanging weight as we add more m-bob acceleration will increase because tension force gets larger and larger as we add more m-bobs it gets heavier than the friction. As we know from when we add 1 magnate on m-cart accelerations decrease because frication was adding to the system, so it wasn’t not it was applying same force, but frication was added so it decreases.   
If given the opportunity to repeat the investigation a few things can be done to improve the overall accuracy and strength of our data. We could increase the accuracy of our tools. By doing this we would be decreasing the level of uncertainty. Another thing that could be fixed is the track. The air that was used to create the frictionless track could be improved by adding more air which would increase the frictionless effect and allow for a more accurate analysis of the friction being caused by the bobbers