discussion and conclusion
the purpose of the lab is to test the effect of both the total mass of the system and the force applied on the acceleration of the system. also tested was the impact of the force of gravity on the acceleration. the purpose was also to develop mathematical models to describe a real system and understand the variables’ in these models relationships with real aspects of the experiment.
the experiment with the force applied (hanging weight) as the independent variable led to the mathematical model $a=2.8414 f - 0.0058$. the fact that the hanging weight affects the acceleration is proven by the fact that there is no overlap between the error bars of the successive data points. the r^2 value of this graph is 0.9999 which is extremely close to 1 and proves that the data lines up with the trendline. 
these three experiments led to their respective models by finding the acceleration at many different values for either force applied or total mass. these data points were then inputted into excel and put into a graph. a trendline was then added to the data, along with a r^2 value which modelled how well the trendline matched the data. the equation of this trendline was changed to use the proper variables (acceleration, force applied, and mass) instead of x and y. this then became the mathematical model. 
the theoretical equation for the acceleration of a system by a single force corresponds to newton’s second law, $f=m a$, rearranged to $a =\frac{f}{m}$. the acceleration is equal to the force (in newtons) divided by the mass in kg. the experimental model supports this as the force applied is directly related to acceleration and the mass is indirectly related with acceleration. the force vs acceleration model is $a=2.8414 f - 0.0058$. the first term is 1 / m, or 1 / 0.3395 is 2.95, which is close to the value 2.84, the coefficient of the applied force term. this second term is created by other forces other than the force of the hanging weight acting on the cart. these forces includes the force of gravity and retarding forces (friction and air resistance). the mathematical model for the mass vs acceleration model is $a = 0.329 m^{-1.031}$. the exponential term is very close to negative 1, or 1 over the mass, which lines up with the theoretical model.
if a heavy connected the cart and the hanging weight, the total mass of the system would increase, and thus the acceleration of the system will decrease. 
using the magnet data sent out after the lab, it is clear that as the retarding force (friction) increases, the acceleration decreases. this retarding force acts in opposition to the force applied, which means that it will affect the coefficient in front of force applied term. 
using the tilt data from group 1, it can be seen that the coefficient for the force applied term follows the same pattern of decreasing as the amount of tilt on the back increases (this includes the test for which our group tested using a raised front). the other term increases as the the amount of tilt in the back (or the slope) increases. 

errors in the experiment which may affect the results are a retarding force, such as the force of friction or air resistance, this would be a systematic error and would affect all data points equally, a force of gravity acting either for or against the applied force, which will either add to or take away from the acceleration, this is also a systematic error which will affect all trials equally. another systematic error would be an error in the zeroing of the scale which would make all measurements either too heavy or too light. properly zeroing the scale before measuring the mass would eliminate this error. leveling the air track before performing the experiment could alleviate the errors caused by gravity, the use of the air track already reduced the force of friction, and ensuring that it would functioning properly would further alleviate this error. the error caused by air resistance cannot be alleviated easily, but testing in a vacuum could eliminate this error. 
the constraint for this experiment is using an applied force which is large enough to overcome the force of static friction and accelerate the system. this experiment is also constrained by a largely frictionless environment, and the results would be very different on a rough track. 
there is a direct relationship between applied force and acceleration and an indirect relationship between mass and acceleration. these results are consistent with newton’s second law, $f = m a$, because the sum of the applied force, the retarding force, and the force of gravity are directly related to the acceleration, and the total mass of the system is indirectly related to acceleration.