discussion and conclusion

	based off these three experiments we wanted to test and see what factors affected the period of a pendulum. the factors tested were the weight, angle, and length. we were testing too see if the pendulums period would increase, decrease or stay the same when we would change the testable factors. we started by setting up tables and distinguishing out dependent variables (dv) and our independent variable (iv). we than generated hypothesis and made a prediction for each three factors. after conducting all the experiments, we found that the length of the sting affects the time it takes the pendulum to complete one full period the most with a high correlation of length change to period change. followed by the angle at which you drop the pendulum which didn’t have as much of an impact as changing the length did, but it still affected it enough to conclude and influence. lastly the mass at the end of the pendulum which affecting in such a little amount that it can be concluded to only change based off human error. next, we took the factor that had the suspected greatest amount of error. for our team we decide that the drop angle could behold the greatest amount of error. we then took the factor that affected the period of the pendulum the most (the length) and reconducted the experiment except this time we used photo gates. using photo gate, we can drastically decrease the amount of human error and better refine our data results. from this new data we were able to for an equation for which you can use to predict the period of the pendulum based on the length of the pendulum. in the graphical figures above, you will see an equation in which you can use to help predict the period of the pendulum. there were a handful of errors that could have come from other either human error or systematic error that would throw off some of our results from the above experiments. this could we something as simple as not dropping the pendulum at an accurate angle or another example could be not starting/ stopping the stopwatch timer right at the beginning or end of the pendulums period. one constraint our team faced was the difficulty of fully understating the procedure of the lab and this resulted in use having to redo several steps in the experiments.