conclusion:
 the purpose of lab 5 was to visually see the effects on acceleration when changing force and mass in newton’s second law is  $f=m a$. using a constant mass and changing the force used increased the acceleration. this makes sense mathematically in the formula as well. in lab 6 the force was altered with a constant mass; in this experiment the track was also altered. there was a backwards tilt that was implemented in this lab. the question asked in lab 5 was is  what are the effects of changing the variables within the equation have on the acceleration? the question in lab 6 was is  what effect does the physical lab setting have on the acceleration while still changing the force?
 the mathematical model in lab 5 is given in figure 2, the graph of acceleration vs force. it is . this equation shows how force and acceleration are positively correlated. the x value being the mass of the hanging object multiplied by the force of gravity, 9.8m/s2. plugging a force in for x will give the mathematical acceleration that the object should have. the trend line has an r2 value of 0.9988, which is very close to 1, meaning the data is strong.
the models found in lab 6 are is  , , and . these models can be found on the graphs of figures 3, 4, and 5. these models represent the force vs acceleration with a backwards tilt of 0.33in, 0.46in, and 0.79in respectively. these models having the same use as that of lab 5. plugging in a force for the x value will give the acceleration. these models all have an r2 value that is very close to 1 is  r2 is 0.9994, r2 is 0.9977, and r2 is 0.9996. these high values show that no matter how large the backwards tilt is, the two variables have a strong positive correlation. 

 below is a picture of another groups data that tested the same hypothesis as we did. their data does agree with our data because if the force is held constant and solve for the acceleration, the acceleration decreases as the tilt backwards increases. our data is has the same result.
above is a picture of a groups data that tested if the amount of friction would affect the acceleration. the group used magnets to increase the amount of friction by adding more magnets. their hypothesis was that increased friction will decrease acceleration. there data proves that to be correct. while keeping the force constant the acceleration did decrease. their independent variable was the number of magnets they put on the cart. the more magnets that were added increased the amount of friction.

 in lab 05 there was one systematic error that was present. the tracks provided are shown to represent negligible friction, although told by our ta that these tracks are not perfect so there would be some very small errors in that. this error is a systematic error because it was constant in every trial throughout this lab. in lab 06 the track that was used had a pre-existing forward tilt. this was accounted for by placing a few masses to achieve a more level track. without a level, there was no way of obtaining a perfectly level track. an answer for any error in an experiment is to conduct more trials to obtain more accurate data.

 the tilt of the track used was tracked in a small increment. the tilts were 0.33in., 0.46in., and 0.79in. using this small range, our data was still accurate and would work out the same way on the larger scale. 

 so in each model we tested to see what happens when you change either mass of an object or force and see how it affects the acceleration. we did see that when you apply increase the force it increases the acceleration of the system and when you increase the mass of the cart you decrease the acceleration of the system. this is true when you keep the other variables constant. newton’s 2nd law shows meaning to our data because if you plug in our forces and masses into $f=m a$ correctly corresponding to the experiment done and solve for acceleration, you will get very similar accelerations to what we found from our data on excel.

although the equations and graphs above makes sense, the graphs are different because one is inversely related and the other is linear. this is due to when you change the equation $f=m a$ around, that changes the way the graph looks.

-linear is  $f= m a$ (when force increases over a constant number, that resultant outcome would be greater.)(just like the graph of $y = x$ since what you are dividing by is constant it doesn’t affect the linear graph to change exponentially.) 

-inversely graph is  $f=m_c a$ (when force is constant and the mass of mc increases, this makes the fraction smaller resulting in the acceleration decreasing.)(just like the graph of $y =\frac{1}{x}$.)