discussion and conclusion

	in labs 1 – 3 the goal was to determine what can impact the period of a pendulum. to determine this, there were three independent variables that were defined is  the length, mass, and angle of release. after testing, it was determined that only the length of the pendulum had an effect on the period. this can be seen in all of the above tables; tables 3, 4, 5, and 6 have an almost completely horizontal trendline, indicating no relationship, whereas tables 1 and 2 have a trendline that slopes upward, indicating a positive relationship. based on the environment of our experiment, this data may be only relevant in a situation where air resistance and the mass of the string holding the pendulum are negligible. 

when this data is compared to a perfect pendulum using the equation $t=2$ the numbers do not match perfectly match; however, they are close enough that it is likely that various human errors caused the slight variations in our experimental data. when looking at this equation, you can see that pendulum mass and angle of release are not included because they have no effect of the period. it is also evident that the force gravity affects the period of the pendulum; however, we were not able to test that as an independent variable because we don’t have the ability to change the force of gravity here on earth. 

the greatest errors that seemed to be present in these experiments seemed to come in different forms of human error. the biggest likely source of random error would have been using handheld stopwatches to time the period. to reduce the error from this, we took 3 trials of each test point, and each trial had two people timing, which would then get averaged in the trial time. all of these trials together make the impact of outliers much less significant, creating more consistent data. if more time were allowed, even more trials could have been taken for even better data. another possible random error source would be the release of the pendulum. the pendulum will not be released in exactly the same way every time as long as it’s done by hand. while we did not take any steps to prevent this error, we could have fashioned some sort of release mechanism to ensure a more consistent release.