conclusion:

the purpose of this lab was to determine how the hanging mass affected the acceleration of a system when the weight of the system stayed the same. we also determined from lab 6 that acceleration will decrease as friction increases on a system of the same constant weight.


the first experiment we performed, changing hanging mass and mass of the car but never the mass of the system, we learned that there is a linear relationship between force applied and acceleration. this led to us getting our mathematical model 2.8681 * f(hanging mass) + .032. the 2.8681 slope in the equation indicates the rate of change as the applied force increases, the acceleration increases. the .032 is acceleration generated by the cart, air resistance, and other external forces that were almost negligible. 

	the second experiment we performed was most likely not performed correctly as the points on the graph varied a lot. however, we were still able to come up with a formula, -0.0002*(mass)+0.187, that makes some sense. as mass decreases acceleration should increase and that is what happens in our model. the numbers for this experiment line up with the numbers for the previous one in that -0.0002 is the rate of change  and the +0.187 is the result of any external forces on the system.

	the third experiment gave us three different mathematical models on how friction affects the acceleration of the cart. the first was 2.7005x -0.01; the second was 2.3223x – 0.0451; the third was 1.887x- 0.0438. these models made sense because as friction increases, the coefficient of x should decrease and that is what happened.


group 1 has very similar equations to our own supporting that the slope of the line should decrease as friction increases. we know that c1 in newtons equation c1f + c2 should correspond to the values in our models. these values do correspond very closely with newtons equation because c1 should equal 1/msystem so that is most likely what the numbers in our equation represent. group 2 has different numbers than ours but they tested raising the angle instead of adding magnets to the cart.

there was most likely no random error since the air tracks are generally very accurate as can be seen from the tiny error bars on the figures from above. however, there was probably some systematic error in the form of air resistance and other external forces that may have acted on the cart. air resistance most likely had s very small effect on the actual performance of the cart sense most objects were heavy enough to not be affected by it and the cart was fairly aerodynamic. air resistance can only be completely eliminated in a vacuum so would be hard to test for in a typical classroom. 


while the air track has a very small margin of error it does exist so this would limit the generalizability of our experiment. actual experiments to test this should be performed inside of a vacuum chamber as well to eliminate air resistance and other external forces that may act on the cart and the hanging mass. only with multi million dollar equipment could this experiment be performed to perfection something that was obviously to accessible to us during our experiments. 

our first model 2.8681 * f(hanging mass) + .032 is consistent because there should be a linear relationship between force and acceleration like there is in our equation so this lines up with newtons second law. the second equation -0.0002*(mass)+0.187 is also consistent with newtons second law because there should be a negative linear relationship between mass and acceleration.