discussion and conclusion

this lab focused on discovering how variables mass, release angle, and length effected the time of period for a pendulum. in order to test each variable individually, three experiments were performed. in each experiment one variable was manipulated while the other two were controlled. for mass, it was expected that increasing the mass would increase the time of period. however, mass had no impact on time of period at all. figure 1 depicts this, as there is no change in slope for the mass vs time of period graph. the time of period remained constant as the mass increased. from this data it is reasonable to rule out mass as an influential factor for time of periods for pendulums. 

next, release angle was manipulated. it was expected that increasing the release angle would increase the time of period. figure 2 does show a fluctuation in time of period when the release angle was increased. however, error bars need to be taken into account. because the trendline intersects every error bar it cannot be said there was definitive change. this makes sense because while increasing the release angle would increase the speed, the pendulum would have a bigger distance to cover in order to complete one period. 

lastly, the length of string was manipulated. it was expected that as the length of the string increased, the time of period would increase. figure 3 shows this to be true. the trendline on the length vs time of period does not intersect every error bar, which leads to the conclusion that there was a definitive change in time of period due to the length of string. 

looking at figure 3, there is one data point that clearly deviates from the trend. taking time measurements by hand using a stopwatch is not the most efficient nor reliable way to collect data. to get an more accurate depiction of this trend, an extra trail was run for length vs time of period in which a photogate was used to take time measurements as opposed to a stopwatch. changing this aspect of the experimental design was done in order to reduce systematic error. figure 4 has error bars too small to be seen and has a 95% confidence rate. this means the data points shown in figure 4 are highly likely to be close to the true value. a trendline was drawn through each of the data points and the best mathematical model for this graph was found to be a side opening parabola (power). 

the theoretical model is $t=\pi g l$. our experimental mathematical model is $y=cx^p$,p<1. in our experimental mathematical model we have a coefficient of 2.1034 and an exponent of 0.439. in the theoretical model g is gravity, and gravity is 9.8ms2and the square root of 9.8 is around 3.13 and 2pi is roughly 6.28. so, the value for 2ℼ/g is 2.

this means if we take our value of 2.1034 and raise it to the 0.439 power it would be equal to 1.39 and if you take 2 and raise it to the ½ power you get a value of 1.41. this is very close to what our answer is. from this we know there were very little error in our calculations.