conclusions.

c. the theoretical model of the period of a pendulum is described as   given this equation there is no reason to even consider the other two independent variables, as they have no place to even be inputted into the theoretical model. however, the variable “l” is given as the name for length, which as shown in graph 2.2 follows a very similar trend. 

  is similar to the equation represented in the upper left corner with a coefficient of .204 which accounts for 2 pi over the square root of gravity. the power of the function that was equated in graph 2.2 is almost .5 which gives the number raised to that power a squared root. with these details about the equation derived in mind. it becomes very apparent that this data is a reasonable fit for the experiment and shows very little if not minute deviation from the theoretical model.

d. the random errors that were present within this experiment were the timing method, and a parallax error when reading the protractor. to improve the timing method a timer that scans when an object passes through it was placed at the base of the tower in order to have more accurate times. parallax was eliminated due to data from graph 3. (angle vs period) that showed that the angle had no correlation to the time of the period. within the system of the experiment due to the nature of the string, the weight at the end of it caused it to form an ellipse that could create longer period times. in order to eliminate this a length of string could be thread through the weight and attached at two points to the fulcrum in order to isolate the path it swings through.

e.  major constraints on this experiment were gravity slowing the bob down between period swings by a fractional amount. this constraint limited the accuracy of the time intervals due to the deviation that each of them had. another constraint on the experiment was the friction from air, although small, it was assumed to be negligible but if calculated correctly could give new light to the calculated time.