discussion and conclusion:

in this lab we asked the question: how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes? we also developed mathematical models to reflect the system because it’s important to understand why each part of a physical system works the way it does. the mathematical models we create allow us to manipulate the system and perform different tests by looking at different variables. it is important to understand each variable because they are what we are testing, and we need to be able to fully understand why each of them affects the other variables like they might and why.

the mathematical model in lab 5 was mainly determined through the use of trendlines created in excel for the graphs. the main types of trendlines we used were the power and linear trendlines. these are straight from data within the lab 5 test 1 and 2 graphs and tables. then the variables x and y were substituted into their correct location to determine what each equation was asking for. in both of the graph’s acceleration was used as the y-variable. in the lab 5 test 1 the x variable was the applied force. in lab 5 test 2 the x-variable was the system’s mass. we found from our experiments that the acceleration is dependent on the applied force. as the applied force increases, the acceleration increases. other variables that could have affected the dependency were held controlled during this experiment. within lab 6 we knew that the data tables involving tilt had very accurate results due to the equipment used to capture the necessary data. this lead to an error so small the error bars are invisible due to their small size. the variable of the y-axis was acceleration on the graphs for experiment 6 and the force applied was the x-variable. the acceleration was dependent on the applied force which became more affected as the tilt of the track increased. as the tilt increased, so did the force applied and thus the acceleration also increased. the mathematical model was determined from the forces hanging and acting on the mass. through several mathematical processes an equation was found and values were subsequently placed into their respective places.
this is all work from group 3. this first group is one that did the same experiment as we did. group 3 had a somewhat similar set of values when compared to our data, although there are differences between our data and group 3’s data sets. this helps us learn that some of the possibilities for minor differences in tilts or even a small difference in the way that our two groups distributed our bobbers. the closeness of the r^2 values show that despite the small differences in the other portions of the equations we were very close with our trendlines when compared against each other. i think the work from group 3 also helps us learn more about the x value in the equation. the average x value calculated by group 3 was much higher than ours, and i think there are a couple factors that contribute to this is  for the first portion i think it might have to due with the possibility of different uses of multiple algebraic equations producing small differences. there is also the chance of several extremely minor differences being created from a difference in rounding, but that in itself is very unlikely ot have produced a difference as large as the one between our data.
all of this work belongs to group 6. group 6 tested the other hypothesis opposite us. their data helps us understand the values in our tests by having something to compare to when a different value is being controlled other than the one, we chose and seeing how that changes the outcome of the experiment. the data collected from group 6 helps me understand that not only one variable can have a large impact on the acceleration of a system and that the forces of friction with magnets can also have a large impact.
in this experiment, there are multiple variables that may impact the results of our data and the experiment. even though there is negligible friction, the air resistance can affect the acceleration of the system as systematic error that slows the cart, this would have been systematic error. additionally, the track could have deficiencies in it where the air being pushed out is inconsistent so there could be slight dips on the air the cart rides on to create a frictionless system, this could have produced a systematic error. the track may have a slope that could produce a systematic error, increasing or decreasing the acceleration of the cart. any issues in the string or how well the pulley rotates, such as knots, could have led to a random error that influenced our results as well.
the main limiting constraints that could affect this lab is the air resistance and the pully. the pully isn’t completely frictionless, and the air resistance is affecting the overall speed of the cart. the conditions we were trying to test were based off of a completely theoretical model, and thus in the real of an absolutely perfect system, which we didn’t have. there are also additional assumptions that are very minute in their affects that go unmentioned during the lab. the best way to showcase these slight imperfections is through the use of error bars, although in the case of this lab they were too small to see.

both of the experimental mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law because the first equation is in the direct from $f=m a$ which is the exact equation said in the main version of the law. the second equation also fits the line because it states that $a =\frac{f}{m}$ which when rearranged algebraically is changeable back into he original version of the equation. all of the other equations from other data sets follow the exact same pattern as the ones in the first and second equations.