discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this lab was to find what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings. graph 1 above shows that the mass of the object on the string has no impact on the period of a pendulum for small swings. each period data point stays within 2 standard deviations of the others; therefore, it can be assumed with 95% certainty that the period did not change with changing mass. also, the trendline is linear with a near-zero slope and clearly fits the data since it falls within the points and all error bars. any deviation from a zero-slope can be attributed to random error since the period data varies higher and lower despite mass having no effect on period. graph 2 above shows that the angle of release of a pendulum has no impact on the period of a pendulum for small swings. the trendline appear that it is linear, but it does not fit the data since it does not even pass through the error bars of all period data points. under 20 degrees, the slope seems to be zero and after 30 degrees there appears to be a positive linear slope. if a trendline were drawn through the points below 20 degrees and another through the points after 30 degrees, then each would pass within the error bars of their respective data points. this is because the data points in each region would have the trendline within 2 standard deviations. for small swings less than 20 degrees, it can be concluded with 95% certainty that angle of release has no impact on the period of a pendulum since the zero-slope is within 2 standard deviations within the data points. graph 3 above shows that the length of the string has a power relationship on the period of a pendulum for small swings. a trendline of a power relationship between length and period was drawn between the period data points and this trendline passed within the points and error bars. since the trendline is within 2 standard deviations of all points, it can be concluded that there is a power relationship between length and period. also, the points are not within 2 standard deviations with each other, so there is a 95% certainty that the period does change with a power relation with length of string. 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is is  $y=0.10294104 x$ where ‘y’ is period in seconds and ‘x’ is length of the string in centimeters. this model is the same as the trendline equation in graph 3 above since only length of string affects the period. the experimental data in graph 3 fit this model clearly because the r2 value is 0.9997 which indicates that the trendline has an extremely good fit to the data since the r2 is very close to 1. the trendline also passes through all the error bars which leads to confidence in the accuracy of the data. since the angle of release and mass of the object on the string had no correlation with the period of a pendulum for small swings, it makes sense that they would not be in the mathematical model. only length of the string affects the period, therefore it is the only variable. the coefficient can be assumed for all periods of pendulums with small swings and experiencing acceleration due to gravity of 9.8m/s2.

instances of human error were in this experiment is  timing with the stopwatch is affected by human reaction time and everyone perceives the pendulum period to begin at varied times based on personal judgement. this contributed to random error in our experiment. however, this random error was reduced by having three different group members measure the period time each trial and average the times to get the data point for the period of each trial. this is random error as each person has different reaction times which can make the values higher or lower than the true values if it is not accounted for. there was systematic error in how we measured the string length in the mass versus period and angle versus period trials. our string lengths were lower than the true values because we only measured to the end of the string, this would make all periods less than the true values. we eliminated this systematic error by measuring to the center of mass of the object on the string instead of the end of the string. this change was made for the length versus period trial when it would have significantly reduced the accuracy of the period times. this was systematic error because all period values in the first two variable trials were lower than the true values. 

our experiment was simplified and as such some generalizations cannot be assumed using our data. we did not have the opportunity to test the effect of varied acceleration due to gravity on period of a pendulum for small swings. a smaller or larger acceleration due to gravity would increase or decrease the period respectively. therefore, the coefficient in our mathematical model cannot be generalized as it is only true on the surface of the earth. another constraint is that we only could develop the mathematical model for the period of a pendulum swing at low angles since we did not have a string with enough tension for high angles. the equation found only applies at angles of release approximately 20 degrees or less based on our data. many improvements also could have been made to increase the accuracy and precision of our experiment. an instrument that raises the mass so that a pre-programmed angle of release can be precisely measured would improve the accuracy of the results. it was difficult to get an accurate angle due to parallax. a more uniform mass could be used so that a pre-determined center of mass is easily identified. this would improve the accuracy of the results because a more accurate length of string could be measured to the center of mass. we had to make an educated guess on where that point was by measuring from where approximately 105g of mass were on each side of the tape measure. the experiment could be improved by having the pendulum swing multiple times per trial and then averaging for one period for that trial. this would reduce random error (increase precision) and improve accuracy of results.