discussion and conclusion

this experiment was conducted in order to model a relationship between the force applied by hanging mass and the acceleration. by using the graph functions in excel, we were able to determine that the level of incline does affect the acceleration of the system. it is shown in the models that as each metal slab is inserted to increase the height of the incline, the acceleration increases. with the r squared value being so close to one, it can be concluded that there is in fact a strong correlation between the height of the incline and the acceleration. the theoretical value of the constant multiplied by the x coefficient should be close to 2.94, ours differs slightly because of experimental error. the other constant is used in order to determine the mass by doing the division of the constant by the force. the equations of the models shown in the figures above represent a great theoretical of $a=\frac{f}{m}$ as it is a linear relationship and the constant being added is very small, not influencing the output of the equation much. 

in this experiment, most of the errors are systematic. this stems from using the sensor machine and the scale. the errors could have been reduced by massing the objects with multiple scales and determining an average for a more accurate measurement. the sensor error is similar, so also running multiple trials with different machines and averaging the output values would have given a more accurate model. errors could have also been reduced if friction was considered. the force of friction would slow the acceleration and the output values of the models shown above would be smaller. not considering air resistance also causes error in the output as air resistance could retard the acceleration of the object.

the figure below depicts the data collected by group 6. note that no names are given.
the data provided by the experiment carried out by group 6 confirms my data. their models are like mine; however, their slopes are lower than mine. this can be due to the error in the values of mass provided by my group. 
the figure given below depicts the models provided by an unknown group number. note that the names and group number were not provided.
i agree with the model provide by this group. our equations are similar with the discrepancy in the slopes, as mine were higher caused by errors when massing the objects. 
the objective of this experiment was to determine the effected of the height of an incline on the force and acceleration of an object. our prediction was that the acceleration and force would increase as the height of the incline increased. our prediction and data are in agreement with the groups’ data and conclusions provided in the figures above. given our models drafted by excel, it can be concluded that our prediction was correct. because of our systematic errors in massing the object and systematic error in measuring the force and acceleration by the sensor machine, the slope of our models was higher than anticipated. these errors, however, does not impede our conclusion from being correct as they are systematic. if the errors were random, we would not be able to draw the same conclusion.