discussion and conclusion

what factors impact the period of the pendulum? 

	after analyzing table 4 and figure 1, it can be inferred that there is no correlation between mass and time. as the masses change the times fluctuate slightly, but with no clear pattern. before the experiment it was predicted in table 1 that heavier masses would shorten the period length of the pendulum swing. looking at figure 1, there isn’t enough evidence to clearly state that the mass either increases or decreases the length of the period. 

	the initial drop angle was another factor that potentially could impact the period of the pendulum. before the experiment it was predicted in table 2 that further drop angles from the horizontal plane would correlate to a shorter pendulum period length. in table 4, this trend is noticeable. although the change is very minimal, the period lengths do shorten as the drop angle increases. however, after looking at figure 2 all the error bars overlap, and the true value for each drop angle could be anywhere within the bars. although a slight pattern was measured, there was also error involved such as hand measuring the angle and hand timing each period. this potential error is shown in the graph, and therefore it cannot be said for certain whether the drop angle impacts the period of the pendulum.

	the third factor that could’ve potentially impacted the period of the pendulum was the length of the string. in table 3 the claim was made that the longer the string length the longer the period length. once the results were recorded in table 6, the results began to look very clear in favor of the team’s prediction. however, error must be considered and the clearest way to do so is through graphical modeling. once figure 3 was outputted with errors considered, it can be said for certain the string length impacts the period of the pendulum due to the error bars being far from overlapping in both directions. 



the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is presented in the equation is  



	in this model, the variables are t (time), g (gravity), and l (length). time is the dependent variable in both this experiment and in the theoretical model. also, gravity is a known constant in both the experiment and in the model. the third variable, length, is the independent variable  in the model. length is also the only factor found to have a definite effect on the period through experimentation. using data from table 6 and table 7 to plug in the string length roughly gives out the time consistently with the model. this could not be performed using mass because it would give out improper units. degrees also wouldn’t fit because it wouldn’t talk to gravity from a symbolic standpoint. it is also significant that in table 1 and 2, string length is considered a value that does not change for the mass and angle tests, meaning that the time should also be consistent for these tests according to the model. 

the only important systematic error in this experiment involved the sensor used to gather data for figure 4 and table 7. at times data was given -0.01s below the consistent value. this error could not be changed or caused by the experimenters, and it was a negatively directed error. during this experiment, random error was a very significant aspect. data in tables 4, 5, and 6 along with figure 1, 2, and 3 were based entirely on averages of hand-timed period lengths dependent entirely on the timer’s reaction speed. in addition, the angle degrees and centimeter lengths were also measured by hand, which is never truly be perfect. in order to reduce the errors, many trials were done by three different timers to get a stronger mean that is closer to the true value. in each of these trials the degrees and string lengths were also remeasured to avoid consistent errors in string length across the trials. in the future, more trials could be performed to improve the quality of results.