discussion and conclusion 

research question:	what impacts the period of a pendulum? 
when attempting to discover how the mass impacts the period of a pendulum. from the graph above in (errors 1st table) you see that the data points for each time are at the same time for multiple different masses. this is showing that as mass increased or decreased time stayed the same. concluding that there is no correlation when it comes to mass affecting the period of a pendulum. you can also look at the error bars on the graph and see that all the data error bars on each point are the same length showing that each point is identical. furthermore, concluding mass does not affect the period of a pendulum. the independent variable has no impact of the dependent variable.
when attempting to graph what happens as you increase the length of a string on a pendulum. the data points create a linear slope going upward. this proves there is a correlation as you increase length of a pendulum the period increases which as well is what the graph shows. you can also tell there is a relationship because the error bars are very small which is very good because it shows that there is little error making our relationship stronger. when your independent variable (length) is increased your dependent variable (time) will increase as well due to this relationship.  
when testing to discover is the angle affects the period of a pendulum. we concluded that there is no relationship with angle release (iv) and period time (dv). we came to this conclusion because our graphs data points are all over place which make it nearly impossible to draw a conclusion about a correlation. along with the error bars being very big about .2 seconds for each and for some the data is either at the top and bottom of it which leads to the conclusion that the angle is not impacting the period of a pendulum. 
theoretical equation is of our graph was $y=0.4268 x^{0.4278}$. but our x value is for inches not meters. when converting to meters our equation becomes $y=1.289 x^{0.4278}$. the theoretical equation is $y=1.99 x^{0.5}$. these two equations are similar leading to our data being valid and a good example of our experiment since our equation is similar along with making a conclusion that these two can be related. we agree with the model because our power value is only off by .8 and our multiplier is only off by about .6 helping prove these two can be related because of how close they are to each other. which can also represent the length of the pendulum to get its period m/s. 

random errors within the experiment were the timer not stopping at exactly one period, air resistance, not having an exact angle each time when releasing and not having the exact weight as measured. the timer issue was reduced by using a photogate for the 3rd lab to get exact timing. to reduce air resistance, you can do this experiment in vacuum. get the same angle each attempt you can have a place holder and place it into the slot each time to make sure the angle is the same every attempt. systematic error was within the photogate and that error had a value of 0.001 but we accepted that error value and did not change data due to instructors’ instructions. 


the constraints within the lab were as followed due to a limit of the length of the string, the amount of weight we could test and the angles our data is only limited. if we could get more length weight and angles our tables could be bigger and more precise which would help us get a better value and one closer to the theoretical model which was the goal. with these limited results we were able to still conclude correctly but with more results our generalization will be more accurate giving us a clearly result than what we already have.