conclusion

 what are the variables that affect the period of a pendulum?

three variables were discussed is  mass, string length, and angle size. multiple trials were held for each variable, changing the value of that specific variable, while controlling the other two listed. the result of this experiment was that the string length and pendulum period had a directly proportional relationship. this means that the period would increase as the string length increased. the second part of this experiment checked for the error in measurements, which include reaction time and the actual measuring process of the string. string measurement was a systematic error because the measurement should have been taken from the center of mass, not the end of the string. reaction time was random error due to inconsistency. the third and final part of this experiment involved determining the standard deviation of data and the lines of best fit for the graphed data. conclusively, the period increased as the string length increased, and increased when the angle increased when studying angles greater than 20 degrees. these two claims can be supported by the above graphs. mass did not affect the period.

the model for string length is   which supports our data because as l (string length) increases, the right side of the function will increase, which means the period is increasing. since mass is not involved in this equation, it will not affect the period length, which is displayed by our data. the angle is also not present in this equation, which supports our claims for the affect of angle change at small angles is negligible.

the two main sources of error are reaction time and string length measurement. reaction time is a random error due to its inconsistency and inability to be given a constant value. the easiest way to correct this error of reaction time is to simply run more trials and obtain more period times. the string measurement is systematic because the full system should have been measured, meaning to the center of mass and not just the end of the string. this resulted in a string measurement that was consistently short of the actual measurement until corrected. this can easily be corrected by ensuring the measurement of the string is taken to the center of mass.

constraints on this experiment include the amount of string, which holds back from how long you can test the period, and the magnitude of gravity. as showed in the model, as gravity decreases, the period will increase, but it is simply impractical to travel higher into the atmosphere to conduct this experiment.