discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of lab 05 was to develop mathematical models which describe the behavior of a real system. how does acceleration of the system alter due to a change in the force of gravity or a change in mass of only the cart? during lab 05 we conducted 3 trials on 4 different hanging masses resulting in 4 different forces of gravity, each equals the acceleration of gravity times the masses. for each different force of gravity, we would take two bobbers and move them from the cart to the hanging mass. when more bobbers were added to the hanging mass the force of gravity on the system increased along with the acceleration. you can see that our hypothesis’ and predictions match the group’s experimental data in graph 1a, the acceleration of the system is directly related to the force of gravity with a positive correlation. our experimental equation could be manually found from newton’s second law $f=m a$. our mathematical model was $a=0.0028 f_g - 0.0164$. the data in graph 1a makes sense because it shows the force of gravity grows as the mass increases on the hanging mass. with a r squared value of 1 it shows there is a strong correlation. the uncertainty range in the data and on the graphs for lab 05 is small, +/-0.05g or +/-0.001m/s^2, this means error bars that are small. in lab 05 models our equation for the relation of acceleration to force of gravity is very similar to two other groups. this is a strong validation for our equation. some groups’ equations differed because of the different rates at which bobbers were added onto the hanging masses. differences associated with groups with equations closely related to ours were slightly different because of the differences in masses of the bobbers. 

in lab 05 we also tested the effect of adding mass to only the cart on the acceleration of the system. we used a consistent hanging mass of 41.05g +/-0.05g and had 3 trials testing 4 different cart masses. the cart masses used were 300.42g, 45l.81g, 601.84g, and 751.25g also with an uncertainty of +/-0.05g. we hypothesized and predicted that the acceleration of the system would be inversely related to the mass of the cart. you can see illustrated in graph 1b that the correlation was still inverse however graphed as a power curve, $y=860.38 x - 1.156$. the error bars in our equation are like the ones in graph 1a because they were calculated the same using excel. we also found the linear equation $a_{system} =-0.0016 m_{cart} + 1.563$, it has a negative slope verifying our hypothesis and prediction. as the mass of the cart goes up the system has a smaller portion of its mass being affected by gravity. the reason it is possible to come up with a power curve is because as we added weight to the cart it started to gain contact with the track therefore causing friction lessening acceleration more so later. this lessened the generalizability of our results.

the purpose of lab 06 was to develop a deeper understanding for each variable and numerical value included in the previous models. we hypothesized that acceleration of the system is inversely proportional to the force of friction. we also hypothesized about the affect of tilt on the air track on the cart, however the other groups collected data. we hypothesized that the more an angle was negative the more acceleration the cart would experience and vice versa. we predicted as the force of friction increases the acceleration of the system would decrease. our evidence supports this claim as seen in lab 06 graph 1. as the number of magnets increased by two for each iteration the overall measured accelerations are smaller, as seen yellow with six magnets all the acceleration values for the given mass values are smaller than the iteration with four magnets and given mass values. this mathematically and logically follows our predictions. the total mass of the cart was kept constant. error bars on the graph were small because the acceleration was measured by a computer. they had an uncertainty of +/-0.001m/s^2. the hanging masses affected the cart in the same manor as in lab 05, as more mass was switched from the cart to the hanging mass the acceleration grew. the mathematical model followed in this lab was $a=c1 w+c2$. in the lab we increased the c2 in the mathematical model by using magnets. we used $a =\frac{f}{m}$ equation also as a model. c1 is m in our mathematical model. c1 should be .0024 because the mass of the system was 407.3. g. but our numerical model had an average of .02183 for c1. these values are close so systematic error is a probable cause. based off c2, total force should be less that the applied force due to the hanging mass because c2 is subtracted from f/m. this supports the mathematical models we have for each number of magnets as seen in lab 06 graph 1.  group unknown 1 and group 3 also investigated friction and its effect on the acceleration on the cart and came to the same conclusion, so it is safe to say that acceleration is negatively correlated with friction. both give data that backs up their claims in group unknown 1 and group 3. the other experiment consisting of tilting the track gave the expected results and the data as seen in group unknown 2 verifies. their initial equation for acceleration was $y=2.9852 x-0.06$ and their final equation for acceleration with tilt was $y=2.772 x+0.0148$. they concluded that after tilting the track the acceleration of the cart was affected. in my group’s lab the cart could have been minorly affected by the magnetic flux between the air track and the cart’s magnets, however, this lab has generalizability in that unintentional friction did not cause some if not any error and the data follow mathematics as well as logic.