discussion and conclusion:

	our data and findings in lab 05 were calculated and analyzed in order to answer the research question is  how does the acceleration of a system change when hanging mass changes? after the experiment, it can be concluded that the increase in hanging mass does result in an increase in acceleration of the system. a good representation of this conclusion can be found in the graph in image 1. this graph directly relates the increase in hanging mass to the increase in the system’s acceleration all while keeping the system mass consistent. the only force that could move the cart on a frictionless air track, is a force applied in the x-direction. this could be done either by giving the cart a push or attaching a string and applying tension to tat string. the more tension (gravitational pull on the hanging bob), the more acceleration of the system. also, the r^2 value 0.9955 shows a high correlation between the two factors, and the small error bars only help this conclusion.

	the findings of the group who calculated the relationship between friction and acceleration of the system could neither be refuted or supported with our data, simply because the group did not conduct an experiment regarding the friction of the air track. with that being concluded, the group’s findings seem accurate, with a general conclusion that as the force of friction increases, the acceleration of the system decreases. for the group that tested the tilt of the air track and the acceleration of the system, a comparison of the groups findings and my groups findings can not be made. there conclusion is a conclusion of the source of error, not of how the tilt affects the system acceleration. the only similarity between the group’s data and my group’s data is that the hypothesis is similar.

the theoretical equation that that was being tested, in terms of the acceleration of a system is is  $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$. our mathematical model from lab 05 supports this theoretical equation immensely. our mathematical model that we found was, as $y = 0.0028  f_g - 0.003$, where as is the acceleration of the system and fg is the force of gravity. the constant 0.003 is the effect of outside forces on the system’s acceleration that were tested in lab 06. the constant of 0.0028 is equivalent to 1/mass of the system. this equation was given through a tread line that was made in excel and an r-squared value of 0.9955 shows how accurate our findings are. this equation also makes mathematical sense, because an increase in tension results in an increase of acceleration.

the enhanced theoretical equation relates to the experiment in lab 06, which tested the equation is  $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$ . i will not list all the 8 trial’s mathematical equations since that would be irrelevant, but each of the mathematical models on the 8 graphs provided show a similar pattern to this theoretical equation. in all of the equations, the slope was around 0.0033, which is equivalent to 1/ mass of the system (with 3 bobs instead of 8 (lab 05)). the x in each mathematical model is equivalent to gravitational force on the hanging mass. more importantly, the c2 value at the end of the equation relates one of two factors (the force of friction, or the force of gravitational pull on the cart down (or up) on an inclined plane). as seen in the chart of the c2 values related to the angles, it can be concluded that the higher an angle the cart travels down, the higher the acceleration of the system is. this is because of a larger external force on the system due to the tilt of the track. a conclusion of the effect of friction can not be made from our data simply because that experiment was not conducted.

if a heavy string were used to connect the hanging mass and cart together, i predict that this would result in a greater acceleration. this is because the mass of the heavy string would continue to add onto the mass of the hanging mass, which would increase the acceleration of the system more and more as the string adds to the hanging mass.

the errors in lab 05 were not as prevalent as they were in lab 06. in lab 05, the only error that could possibly happen would be a mismeasurement error of the mass of the bobs. the group did not weigh each bob individually before placing it from the hanging mass to the sled, which could have caused some miscalculations. other than this, all error was reduced in lab 05 by using sensors to calculate the acceleration and using excel to create the graphs. in lab 06, the largest room for error was the angle of the sled track. even though each shim was measured by itself and with a dial caliper, the table in which the track laid was not level, and the group had no way of leveling the track before the experiment was started. this caused systematic error, so that the data taken at “angle 0”, most likely was not close to a true angle of zero. all other sources of error were reduced by using sensors and excel. 

the major constraint of this experiment was a time constraint. the first part of the lab could only be conducted till about only half of what was expected, and lab 06 was also rushed so that not all groups could share their findings, a crucial part of this experiment. in lab 06, the different findings (friction and tilt of the ramp) had to be split within the class, which reduced the understanding of each factor for each group. also, if more shims or longer shims would have been provided, larger angles could have been produced which could have produced more accurate data.