discussion and conclusion



research equation – what affects the period of a pendulum? 


the first experiment had the iv as the weight in the pendulum bob, which had 20 grams added to the bob for each trial, which was then plotted against time of the period in seconds. the mass was determined to not affect the period of the pendulum. plotting a weight vs. time graph and fitting a line of best fit to the data allowed us to make this claim. the equation of the line for this graph is $y=1.479 - 0.0003 x$. this graph has an almost flat slope, which means that there is no correlation between the weight of the pendulum and the time of the period. the slight negative slope is due to the random error, which is indicated through the error bars. the error bars show that the data overlaps which means that the values could not have changed at all which indicates that there is not correlation between the iv and dv. 

the second experiment had the iv as the changing length in the string in cm plotted against time of the period in seconds. in this experiment there was determined to be a correlation between the time of the period and the length of the string. as the length of the string increased, the time of the period also increased. there was also no variance in the data where there would be a positive trend and then a negative trend and the positive again, the data was consistently positive.  the error bars do not overlap so it can be concluded that the positive trend is in fact a correlation between the independent and dependent variables. the data was then fitted to a power trend, which had the equation $y=0.5486 x^{0.2081}$. the error in the experiment came from the human error of timing the period and the time constraint that led us to not performing multiple trials to get better data. in the third lab period the length of the string vs the period was tested again the same trend was found. for this trial, the data was more accurate because a photogate was used to measure the time, this gave us an error of .001. when this value was inputted for the error bars they were too small to be seen which indicates that the data we collected was accurate. this second trial gave us an equation of 3.1007x^.4177 which is closer than the first equation produced in the first lab to the theoretical equation of 1.99x^.5. 


the third experiment had the iv as the changing of the angle of release in degree plotted against the time of the period in seconds. in this experiment there was determined to be no correlation between the independent and dependent variables. the equation of the line of best fit is .0076x + 1.036. this slope indicates that there is little to no correlation between the data because it is almost flat. this slight upward trend can be attributed to the error. the error bars overlap which indicates that there could be no movement in between the points because of the range of possible times that are shown from the error bars. this possibility of no change at all from changing the angle of release indicates that there is no correlation between the angle of release and the time of the period. 



 the theoretical equation for the graph of the length of the string vs. the time of the period is $t =1.99 l^{0.5}$. the theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is    $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$   experimental equation that was found in the third lab was     $t=3.1007 x^{0.4177}$   .  when the line was fitted to our data, the r-value was .995 which indicates that the line fits almost perfectly to our data which shows that the power function is the correct line of best fit. there was random error in the way we measured the string, which could account for the variance from the theoretical value. the mathematical model produced in lab does support the theoretical equation because the best-fit line was a power function and not a liner function. there is some variance between our experimental equation and the theoretical equation but this can be attributed to the random error discussed below. also, there was no overlap in the error bars as they were too small to be seen which indicates that we have accurate data which would support the theoretical equation. 

 sources of error in the first experiment were from the timing of the period using a stopwatch. this could be mitigated by having multiple people timing the period of the pendulum and by performing more trials for each of the variables to get better data. this error was then fixed in the third lab period by having the photogate time the period of the pendulum. there was also error in the angle of release because it was difficult to have two people, one holding the protractor and the other holding the bob, to then find the consistent spot of release. this wasn’t able to mitigated however, through the experimental data we found that the angle of release does not affect the period the pendulum. another source of random error could have been the slight change in the length of the string between trials where the string wasn’t the independent variable. measuring the string before each trial to fix the length could have mitigated this source of error. there also could have been systematic error in the measuring devices as there can be assumed that there may be error in the production process of the protractor and the tape measurer. this systematic error would have been consistent throughout the trials and does not contribute to the standard deviation. 
 there were time constraints for the time given to perform the experiment and to collect the data. this could have made it easier to make small mistakes because we were working faster in order to fit the experiment into the lab period. if we had more time then we would be able to perform more trials and would also perform ‘cleaner’ trials as we would spend more time on proper setup. another constraint was the ring stand only went up to a certain height, which decreased the amount and the range of data that we could collect. if we had more data then we would have a better-fitted line and data that more accurately represented and supported the theoretical mathematical model.