discussion and conclusion: 

	in this lab, the question “how does the acceleration of a system change when the net force changes” was tested.  in test 1, this was achieved by keeping the overall mass of the system the same but changed where the mass was distributed in the system.  when mass was shifted from mass 2 to mass 1, the acceleration decreased.  this is because of newton’s second law, $f=ma$ which states that the sum of the forces in the x or y direction is equal to the mass times the acceleration.  the more mass that there is at mass 1 increases the normal force acting on it which also increases this force of friction.  the increase of this force of friction decreases the net force acting on the system which then decreases the acceleration.  the acceleration in these experiments was obtained by measuring rotational velocity of the pulley and taking the slope from that velocity vs time graph.  this system that was able to detect the velocity that was accurate to 0.001 m/s.  

	in test 2, the answer to the research question posed was tested by adding mass to just mass 1 while keeping mass 2 constant.  when more mass was added to mass 1, the normal force increases which also increase the force of friction and due to newton’s second law, the acceleration decreases.  in this case the net force decreases and since the mass is increasing, this means that the acceleration has to decrease.  

	in test 3, the answer to the research question posed was tested using the same procedure as the first test with the exception that the ramp was tilted backwards.  this tilt allowed there to be an x component of gravity which opposes the direction of motion.  this decreases the net force on the system which will decrease the acceleration when compared to the same system with tilt less than that tilt.  based on the graphs, all the results had high r2 values which means that there was little to no error; however, this error can still be reduced by repeating the experiment and getting more data points to reduce any random errors.  after this experiment, we all got to visualize and see an example of newton’s second law in action, which helped us to better understand it.  overall, this experiment tested how acceleration changes based on force and mass and the hypothesis that was stated was proven correct. 

