conclusion:
To start this experiment, my lab partners and I were asked the following question: What impacts the period of pendulum? To which we decided to answer by setting up an experiment. We set up three different experiments to test various independent variables. 

First, we set up an experiment to test the impact mass had on the period of a pendulum. We predicted that the mass would not drastically effect the period of the pendulum solely based on the information we have learned throughout our lectures thus far in the semester. The data provided evidence for our prediction because the period was never really affected according to Table 4. The error bars also overlapped, showing that they were similar in position according to table 7. Even when we doubled the data, because of the equivalency criterion, the results were still showing there was really nothing affecting the period.

Next, we set up an experiment to test the impact starting angle had on the period of a pendulum. We predicted that the starting angle would not drastically effect the period of the pendulum solely based on the information we have learned throughout our lectures thus far in the semester. The data provided evidence for our prediction because the period was never really affected according to Table 5. The error bars also overlapped, showing that they were similar in position according to Table 7. Even when we doubled the data, because of the equivalency criterion, the results were still showing there was really nothing affecting the period.

Lastly, we set up an experiment to test the impact string length had on the period of a pendulum. We predicted that the string length would, indeed, affect the period. We even went further and said that as the string length increases, the period will also increase. The data provided evidence for our prediction because the period was greatly affected according to Table 6. The error bars were much farther apart in comparison to those of the mass and starting angle’s graphs. The data did not overlap whatsoever with the given uncertainty. 

The theoretical equation for the period of the pendulum is defined as $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ where T is period in seconds, L is string length in m, and g is gravity in m/s^2.To compare the theoretical equation to our experimental model, we will use the data point at L is 15cm. When we tested this string length ourselves, we got T is 0.824s. If we plug in the data to the theoretical equation we get T is 0.778s. This gives us little error, but our error was previously described as it was mainly human error.
