discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of the lab is to collect data and plot this data in graphs in order to develop mathematical models that can be used to systematically produce accelerations for a given mass (lab 05). this model can be used to imagine multiple different realistic events from a demonstration in a lab setting. the purpose of lab 06 was to develop an understanding of how friction and tilt affected the acceleration of the system.

	we found that as long as the mass of the system is held constant and the mass from the cart is shifted to the hanging mass, the acceleration of the system will increase. the more mass is taken from the cart and put on the hanging mass, the more the cart will accelerate. the class, again, was unable to accomplish the second part of lab 05 so the conclusion that is to be drawn from that lab is unknown to us. from lab 06, it can be concluded that friction and tilt have an impact on the acceleration of the cart. as the friction of the track on the car increases, the car will accelerate at a slower rate, especially when it has more mass. on the other hand, when the sensor is tilted below the point of equilibrium when the track is level, the cart accelerates toward the sensor and the mass pulling the cart faster than usual because the gravitational force has more of an impact on the acceleration of the cart because not all of the gravitational force is cancelled out by normal force anymore.

the whiteboard (pictured left) shows group 6’s data. there data concludes the exact same thing that our data includes. this group claims that their c1 value is the same for all four equations with differing amount of magnets. this agrees with our claim that the rate of change of acceleration changes at a constant rate no matter how many magnets there are. their c2 value being different for each amount of magnet also agrees with our claim that the only thing that the friction changes is the initial amount the cart can carry as more friction is added (not rate of acceleration).

group 4’s data (pictured right) is not very easy to interpret because their conclusion does not really have a definitive conclusion involved in it. on the other hand, this group’s hypothesis does make sense. they state that the elevation of the track (meaning tilt) is related to the acceleration. before learning which variable we would be testing, our group came up with the same hypothesis. as stated previously, the relationship between tilt and acceleration is that when the pulley side of the track is tilted downward, the cart accelerates more than usual and vice versa.

some systematic error that might exist is if too much weight is added and the frictionless track on top of the cart. if too much weight is added, then the track that was supposed to be frictionless is no longer frictionless. if too much weight is added, then the cart would begin to slide across the track just a bit and kinetic friction would be present. in order to reduce this friction, the weight used was very miniscule; bobbers for fishing were used as mass instead of metal masses like in the pendulum lab. some random error that could exist is if the cart was released from a different length each time. although this technically shouldn’t change the acceleration of the cart, it might make it more difficult to calculate an average slope on the graph because the has a smaller segment that was measured. a very similar form of error would be if the program that was used to collect data was stopped to early, it would take out some valuable data.

a constraint that exists in this lab is that our lab class was not able to finish the second part of lab 05. this was not the fault of the students, it just took longer to understand the first checkpoint than originally thought. another constraint in this lab includes the inability to fasten the magnets very securely. after the magnets on the cart were placed and the cart was released so that it could accelerate, it seemed as if the magnets were moving on the cart almost ready to fall off the cart. on some of the trials, the magnets did fall off.

my two experimental mathematical methods are very similar because the slopes are the same value. the only difference is the c2 value, or the y-intercept value. because the mass of the system in the first experiment is constant and the acceleration changes as the location of the mass shifts, the sum of the forces also changes. the force changes because the gravitational force for the hanging mass increases and the mass that the hanging mass is dragging is less, therefore it will accelerate at a faster rate when the hanging mass is more than the mass of the cart.