discussion and conclusion

		the question asked was, “what affects the period of a pendulum?” three parameters were tested, mass, angle, and string length, these were the variables that could be controlled in a lab on earth that could have had a significant impact on the period of a pendulum. the first test conducted was the affect of mass on the period, data can be seen in table 1 and graph. it was expected that as the mass increased, the period would decrease. however, mass had no affect on the period. according to graph 1, all of the data points lie within two standard deviations of each other, indicating that any variability in the results can be accounted for in the uncertainty of the measurements taken. this means that the mass has no effect on the period of a pendulum. the next experiment was if the angle the pendulum is released at affects the period of the pendulum. if the angle was increased, the period was also expected to increase. the results can be seen in table 2 and graph 2. similar to the mass experiment, all the data points lie within 2 standard deviations of eat other, meaning that any variability in the data can be seen as a result of the uncertainty in the measurements. this indicates that the angle the pendulum is released at has no effect on the period of the pendulum as long as the angle is less than 30˚, because all angles tested were less than 30˚. the final experiment was the effect of the string length on the period of a pendulum. the period was expected to increase if the string length also increased. the results can be seen in table 3 and graph 3. according to graph 3, the string length does have an affect on the period of a pendulum. in graph 3, a straight line cannot be drawn through all the error bars indicating that the variability in the data is not because of the uncertainty of the measurements but is because string length affects the period of a pendulum. this test was repeated, and the results can be seen in table 4 and graph 4. the results seen on graph 4 validate that the string length affects the period of a pendulum

	

		the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is  . the mathematical model found in graph 4 is  where x is the string length. the derived model is very close to the theoretical model.  is 2.007 which is really close to 2.005 which was derived. in the theoretical model, l (string length) is raised to .5 and in the derived model x (string length) is raised to .5203 which is really close to the theoretical value of .5. the theoretical model doesn’t account for the angle or the mass which is consistent with the conclusion that mass and angle have no affect on the period of a pendulum.

		

		a random error in the first three experiments was the use of human timers, while the error was reduced by having two people time the period and averaging the times, errors were still present, this was resolved in the fourth experiment when a photo gate was used to time the period, this led to much more consistent times with much less error. another random error was the path of the bob wasn’t always straight, it would sometimes move in a very slight elliptical orbit, increasing the time of the period, this could have been remedied by using a second string to keep the bob moving in a straight line. these results are only valid for angles less than 30˚. if the angle increased past 30˚, the period might be affected by the angle, so the model would require an angle term.