discussion and conclusion: 

the first experiment was conducted by using the research question of how mass effects the acceleration of a system, while experiment two was conducted by using the research question of how mass and magnetic strips effect the acceleration of a system. 

the first variable that was tested was how the mass added to the hanging mass (mass 1) would effect the acceleration of the system.  our hypothesis was that the mass would decrease the acceleration as more mass was added to the string. this was found to be proven correct by the graphs shown in lab five (graph 1) and all graphs in lab six. the graphs show that the acceleration was decreased in a linear relationship as the mass was increased. 

the second variable that was tested was how the mass added on to the top of the care would affect the acceleration of the system our hypothesis was that the larger the mass was on the cart the more the acceleration would decrease. this was found to be proven correct by the graph from lab five (graph 2) where the slope clearly shows that as the mass increase the acceleration decreased. so, there was a positive correlation between the mass on the cart and the acceleration. 

the third variable that was tested was how the number of magnetic strips on the track would affect the acceleration of the system. our hypothesis was that the more magnetic strips on the cart that were facing the track the more the acceleration of the system would decrease. our hypothesis was proven to be correct by the graphs from lab six (graphs 2 and 3). the points on the graphs clearly show a decrease in the acceleration as magnetic strips are added to the cart. though we cannot be completely certain as we also changed the hanging mass which we have already determined decreases the acceleration. the graphs do show that the magnets slowed down the acceleration at a slightly larger rate though. 

when our models were compared to other groups findings, they were similar as seen in the above figure. our mathematical models showed similar results as well as the data from the experiment. they also found that as the hanging mass increased and the mass on the cart increased the acceleration of the system decreased. 

our mathematical model for how the change of a force changes acceleration was $y=0.0025 x + 0.1066$. the theoretical model for acceleration is $f=m a$. though our model doesn’t quite look the same as the model they both produce a similar result that shows how the change in mass and force affects the acceleration. 

the random errors that effected our experiments were primarily the weighing of the mass of each fishing bob which could cause the mass we thought we had on the hanging mass be different than it was which. another random error could be the fishing bobs hitting the floor had when the system was running which could mess up the acceleration, as well as the string of the pulley sometimes popped out of place without us always noticing though we usually re ran those. we could try to accurately weigh the mass of the fishing bobs to fix that error, and if it were to be done again, we could make the initial position further from the pulley to prevent the fishing bobs from the floor. 

	the major constraints of this experiment were what variable could be tested and how much mass could be added to both the hanging mass and the mass on top of the cart, as well as how many magnetic strips we could place on the cart to face the track. we were given a set amount of fishing bobs we could add to the hanging mass and we were also given a set amount of mass that could be added to the top of the cart. we were also given a set number of magnetic strips that we could add the cart. this led to us not being able to change the mass as much as we wanted and add as much magnetic strips as wanted, this will lead to generalized results among the class as we all have similar constraints.