discussion and conclusion:

	as considered earlier, the purpose of this lab was to develop a model to describe the relationships of mass and acceleration of a real system as mass was moved from being an applied force and determining how the change in applied force from the hanging mass affects the acceleration of the system. the other goal of the second part of the experiment was to demonstrate how the slope of a track affects the overall acceleration of a cart as can be seen in our data. 

in the model of this experiment of the mass vs acceleration graphs, the slope is represented by the force acting on the system, and the variable x is the mass that is on the cart in the experiment with the variable y being the acceleration of the cart. in theory this graph would be a power relationship so that it would follow newton’s second law equation of $f=m a$ and since mass and acceleration in this system were known, the graphs should in theory be in the form of $a = \frac{f}{m}$ . since our data shows a linear relationship and not this power relationship, our data is not supported by this law based on the first part of the experiment. for the force versus acceleration graphs, the slope represented the mass applied on the system. this is why the slopes are all very similar and the y-intercepts are near zero on graph 3.2. also, in these graphs, the x value will represent the force applied by the hanging mass which was calculated by multiplying the hanging mass times the force due to gravity, and the y value represents the resulting acceleration in both of these cases.

	when comparing our data versus the others in the photos below of group 4 and group 5 respectively, it can confirm our belief that the acceleration is negatively affected by a rise in the slope of the track. since each of these other two groups had similar hypotheses and conclusions, we can support our own conclusion since they had essentially the same results. therefore, these groups findings also support our belief that the slope of the graph would be the mass since they drew the conclusion that as the slope rises, the acceleration decreases which continues to support newton’s second of $f=m a$ meaning the slope would have to be the mass in that case to complete his law equation.

	in this experiment, although we worked to decrease error as much as possible, there are still areas where error could have existed. this error is likely due to random error as can be seen in the data slightly deviating from the trendlines in both directions. one such error that could be involved in this experiment would be friction between the track and the cart. although we used a device that eliminated much of the friction, there was still likely some present which could have certainly affected the data that we collected. another piece of random error could be due to the masses swinging around while the cart is released since this could affect the overall acceleration of the cart in a random way because the swinging was not controlled. to minimize these errors, one thing we could do is use individual weights that are pulled up and down by a vertical string instead of an open swinging string so that they don’t have the ability to go anywhere but up and down. to reduce the friction part, we did about as much as we could in this experiment to prevent any friction by using a machine that acts somewhat like an air cushion between the cart and the track to eliminate as much friction as possible.

	one constraint in this experiment that will limit the ability to generalize our results is the lack of friction that we simulated in the experiment. often in the real world friction will be present, so in our experiment, the friction was not accounted for due to the methods we used, yet this would be hard to generalize since these conditions are not always available in the world. also in this experiment, the mass of the string was assumed to be negligible, which is hard to generalize beyond this experiment because objects outside of this experiment actually do have mass, so if we wanted to generalize more for this experiment, we could account for the mass of the string and the friction between the string and the puller which could have also had an effect.

	in each of our two mathematical models, they both follow newton’s second law of $f = m a$ because of the graphs that are shown. in graph 2.2 and 3.2, they both show the relationship between force and acceleration. the slope therefore would be the mass and the y intercepts are essentially zero, so it can be assumed that the equations of the graph display $y = m x$ where y is the acceleration and x is the force in newtons. in this first experiment, it also in theory would support it if the power function was used for the graph. in this case, the equation would be in the form of  where x is the force applied by the hanging masses and y is the acceleration. this also follows newton’s second law because $f = m a$ can be rearranged to be  and follow the slope of such a power curve.