discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this lab was to compute mathematical models in which describe the behavior of a real system (lab 05). this lab was also used in order to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value indicated in the model (lab 06).

the first mathematical model for experiment 1 in lab 05 $a=0.102$.this was achieved by determining the acceleration as the hanging mass changed. table 3 in the 05 lab records contains all of the data that was collected for this portion of the experiment. in order to create figure 1 in lab 05, the mass of the hanging was multiplied by gravity in order to obtain force, which was then used to compare the acceleration and the hanging force as seen in figure 1. from this model, the conclusion that can be drawn from both table 1 and figure 1 that there is very little impact on the outside physical conditions of the experiment. -2e-17 is a very small number. this number represents outside forces that could be acting on the cart (friction, tilt). without accounting for these specific factors, one could conclude that these outside conditions do not have a large effect on the acceleration. in addition, the c1 value was able to be obtained by computing 1/mass of the system. this value multiplied by the force is consistent with newton’s second law. the second mathematical model for the second experiment in lab 05 $a=1.13306427254105 $. during this experiment, the mass of the cart was changing relative to the hanging mass. table 4 contains the data that was collected throughout this experiment. the graphical representation of the data collected however did not follow the linear plot that figure 1 has to show for the first experiment. figure 2 shows the negative power relationship between the acceleration and the force of the cart. the graphical relationship differs from the first model. the power relationship shows that as the force of the cart increases, the acceleration decreases. the value .8758 is the hanging force of the model that was held constant. this suggest that the acceleration decreases at an exponential rate rather than a linear fashion. the outside forces are in the exponent of the mathematical model rather than the y intercept like the first mathematical model. lastly, the mathematical models that were constructed in lab 06, contained a numerical value for the external forces that were not accounted for in lab 05. what figure 1, figure 2, and figure 3 show is how a downward tilt affects the force of the hanging mass this numerical value can be accounted in the c2 term of the equation $a=c1 f c2$. all three figures show a negative c2 value. the conclusion that is able to be drawn is that the downward tilt negatively effects the acceleration. the downward tilt takes a certain numerical value away from the acceleration as the tilt increases. the values in the c2 slot do not follow a constant decrease in number, however, all three c2 values are consistent in the fact that they take away from the acceleration of the cart.  
	the variable that group #3 set out to discover was how the downward tilt would affect the acceleration of the cart. group #3 did the same experiment as the data presented in this lab in order to compare results. group #3 came to the same conclusion, stating that as the downward tilt increases, the acceleration of the cart decreases. with these two experiments coming to the same conclusion, this shows that the downward tilt negatively impacts acceleration.
	the variable that group #5 worked to investigate was how friction impacted the acceleration of the cart. group #5 work was consistent with the conclusion that was drawn from the impact of the downward tilt on the cart. based off their conclusions, they noticed that friction affected the acceleration of the cart in a negative manner. this was also the conclusion that was determined based off of the downward tilt of the cart. this shows that the more friction that you add to the cart, the lower the acceleration.

one random error that could have occurred was adding a force applied when letting the cart go from its starting position. this could have impacted the acceleration by strengthening the initial velocity. the photogate could have detected a force that would have been stronger, and therefore produce a faster acceleration. in the future, one way to reduce this error would be to have a device that would let go of the cart instead of a human doing this task. a systemic error that occurred during our first trial for lab 06 was that the caliper was not zeroed out at the start of the trial. this could have messed up the thickness of the metal plates in order to increase the downward tilt. however, this error was caught and the trial was repeated with the caliper zeroed out in order to produce an effective measurement. trial 1 was repeated and the corrected values are shown in table 1.

one constraint that was present throughout this lab was the thickness of the metal bars in order to increase the downward tilt of the cart. the metal plates were different sizes, however, they were not large enough to produce a drastic difference in the acceleration. for example, the c2 value for each trial in lab 06 did not follow a negatively linear path. with variance in the metal block thickness, the change in the acceleration would be more drastic and the pattern would have been able to be seen more clearly. another constraint would be the length of the track that the cart was on. the cart was only able to be pulled back a certain distance before it could not go any further. if the cart was to be able to be pulled back and let go at a further distance, this would have produced a better acceleration since the cart was able to gain speed and momentum before reaching the photogate.

the reason that the two experimental mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law is because the mathematical models are in the same format. since newton’s second law states, the mathematical that was produced in lab had to resemble the same structure. in lab 05, the mathematical model produced  $a=0.102$. one would be able to determine the force of the object when given the acceleration from either the table or the graph. this is also true for the mathematical model in lab 06, which is $a=2.4568 f_{hanging}-0.0018$. for this portion of the experiment where a downward tilt was applied, the mathematical model still stands true for newton’s second law.