conclusion:
In these experiments we tested to see how the mass of a hanging mass connected to a car on a frictionless track and how the mass of the cart itself, when changed respectively, affect the acceleration of the cart. We predicted an inverse relationship between the weight of the cart and the acceleration of the cart, as the mass increases the speed decreases. For the mass of the hanging mass it was predicted that the relationship would be linear, as the weight of the mass increases, so does the acceleration of the cart. Based on these predictions the independent variables are the two masses and the dependent variable is the acceleration of the cart. 
Running the experiment for mass of the cart twice gave us ample data to determine how the mass of the cart and the acceleration of the system relate to each other. With mass added to the cart, more force was required to achieve a similar acceleration. 
The point in conducting this lab wasn’t solely to investigate how two specific variables affect the outcome of a system but rather a much broader scope. The point of this lab was to develop mathematical models that describe the behavior of a real system and to develop an understanding for each variable and numeric value that is involved in the models.  
Unlike the topic they explain, the three experiments are not very complex. What it boils down to is a changing of the weight doing the pulling, and the weight being pulled to see how they each effect the acceleration in the system respectively.  when testing these experiments, there was found to be a negative relationship between the mass of the cart and the acceleration in the second and third experiment. In the first experiment a strong linear correlation was found between the mass of the hanging mass and the acceleration in the system.  In the first mathematical model, the equation predicts a linear line to result from it. When looking at Figure 2, this assumption is followed by our data. In our second mathematical model, the equation is shown to be exponentially decreasing. This can be witness in Figure 4. As the mass of the cart increases by the adding of a magnet, the slope is decreasing in a consistent rate. 

As seen in the picture above, Group 5 came to the conclusion that the more mass on the cart, the larger the change in acceleration of the cart would be. This group had a similar equation to ours and it behaved in the same fashion, as the mass of the cart increased, the acceleration of the cart decreased. This leads me to believe that we are correct in our results as we aren't alone in our findings. 

The findings of group 3 show that the change in mass of the cart to test its effect on the acceleration, mass have an effect. In the picture above it can be deduced that the more mass on the cart, the slower and shallower its acceleration is. It can be seen in their graph that the slope of the line when there are more magnets on the cart is not as steep as the slope of the line with more magnets meaning that more mass slows the acceleration of the cart. 
Error occurs in all experiments. In this experiment there could be s few types of error. In the systematic error, an improper calibration of the pully wheel could lead to a uniform error in all the data. In addition to this, and improper calibration in the scale could lead to a constant error in the mass of our objects. As for random error, if one of the ports in the track designed to let air through became clogged, this would cause friction to differ on one-part vs another creating error in the experiment
The main limits on generalizability in this experiment rely on its scale. If the experiment were bigger it could more correctly apply to real world cases. Because the experiment is done on a small scale, it is made more difficult to apply its principles to out of lab scenarios. 
Our results were consistent with Newtons second law. In the experiment it can be seen that a greater force, with the cart at a constant mass, results in a greater acceleration, following the law. It can be seen in the second experiment that with a constant force, and an increasing mass, the acceleration decreases to compensate for the gain in mass. 