conclusion:
 the research question being asked here was what effects the pendulum for small swings. in this lab, we investigated three variables is  length of the string, mass of the pendulum, and angle at which the pendulum was dropped. all were investigated independent of one another.

 each experiment addressed each factor. each of the claims made in this experiment are valid such that 2 of the three variables being investigated were controlled in any given experiment. tables 1, 6, and 7 along with graphs 3 and 4 address the investigation of the effect of the length of the string on the period. as seen from graphs 3 and 4. there is a strong relationship between period length and length of the string. both graphs present a high r squared value which indicates a strong relationship and they also show a positive correlation. as string length becomes longer, period length also becomes longer. tables 2 and 5 address the investigation of the effect that angle the pendulum is released at has on the period. graph 2 shows the relationship. while it may seem from first glance that there is some correlation, further investigation is needed for this graph. to start, the slope of .001 is very small and would indicate that the slope is actually almost flat. the scale on the y axis increases by increments of .01 which is also very small. the r squared value here is .77 which may indicate some correlation, but it would still indicate that correlation is very poor. the data recorded for large angles are inconsistent with those of smaller angles and data taken for larger angles in this lab in most cases could be considered erroneous. this could be considered as experimental error. tables 3 and 4 along with graph 1 address the investigation of mass on the period. graph 1 shows the relationship. the graph shows very poor correlation between mass and period as the r squared value is .40 and the slope is -.0003 which is very small. we concluded that there was no correlation for neither the angle nor the mass. we also concluded that there was a positive correlation between length of the string and period.

the theoretical model for the pendulum was to complete an experiment that used an electronic stopwatch with a laser to most accurately show the relationship of length and period. since we only determined the length of string to be the only factor that has correlation to the period, this is the only factor that was investigated here. the mathematical model is show by table 7 and graph 4. this mathematical model was the same relationship seen with table 6 and graph 3. this mathematical model differs slightly. the data obtained from the mathematical model presents a r squared value of .9981. it makes sense that this value is higher with the mathematical model because more precision is in place because of the electronic stop watch which eliminates the human error related with using a hand timer. angle and mass had such poor correlation that we did not deem it necessary to create a mathematical model for these factors.

 random error that was present was the use of a hand timer. this was minimized by having two people time the pendulum and taking the average of their recorded times. this was also further minimized in the third experiment by using photogate to time the period. unless a systematic error presented itself and we were unaware, we did not experience any. a source of systematic error would be a scale the consistently reads too high or too low or possibly a slow or fast stopwatch. this could be minimized by using multiple scales and having multiple people time the pendulum.

 limits of this experiment would be the fact that air resistance was neglected when it was present. this would create for results that differ from the actual results but only very minimally effecting the results.