discussion and conclusion- 

	what factors affect the period of a pendulum?

	each of the variables tested could have had some link to the period of a pendulum due to the increase of the forces upon the pendulum or the amount of speed the pendulum attains.  the first tested variable was the weight at the end of the pendulum.  it was tested first due to the thought that having more weight would increase the force of gravity and thus increase the momentum of the pendulum.  however, when tested there was no visual effect on the period of the pendulum.  it can be seen from the graph that is could not be determined from the graph that each recorded value was different than the last.  this is due to the error bars recorded as well as the line of best fit given from excel.  the line of best fit was linear which indicates weak correlation, and thus showing that the weight at the end of a pendulum does not affect the period of the pendulum.  

	next, the angle of the release was tested.  this experiment resulted in showing a slight correlation between the release and the period of the pendulum.  the angle of release was tested due to the thought that by giving the pendulum more time to fall and swing, it would increase the speed gained and decrease period time.  the claim was made that as the angle increased then the period will decrease.  this claim can be valid under the evidence that as there is more time for the pendulum to fall, it can increase its speed and thus decrease its overall period.  however, the angle of release is slightly deviant from this claim.  if the angle is not large enough or is too small (20 degrees or less), then the period cannot be seen to have a noticeable change due to the error accounted for.  based on the graphs there is a slight correlation between these two factors but based on the error bars it can be stated that angle of release does not have an overall affect on period.  this is due to the uncertainty predicted from each factor within the experiment.  also, there is a noticeable difference between specific angles such as 20 degrees compared to 90 degrees but due to the inconsistency of the results nothing can be concluded.

	finally, the length of the string was tested.  the claim generated for this part of the experiment was, if the length of the string increases then the period of the pendulum will also increase.  this claim was made on the thought that if given more length, then the end of the pendulum, the part that feels the pull of gravity the most and makes the pendulum swing, will have a longer time in between swings.  it will also increase the amount of time taken for the whole pendulum, as it is larger, to make full swings.  the evidence truly validates this claim.  it can be seen from the data that as string length increases, so too does the period of the pendulum.  this claim is also upheld by the graphs calculated from the photogate and the excel spread sheet.  on the graph, none of the error bars overlap within the given two standard deviations of error allowed.  this supports that each value recorded was truly different than the last value.  also, the equation line calculated from excel, with the highest r^2 value is the exponential function.  this shows the highest level of correlation.  therefore, it can be concluded that string length does affect the period of a pendulum.



	there was multiple systematic error that could have been present within the experiment.  the first could have been the measurement on the tape measure being off by a slight margin.  the actual printed numbers and lines could have been slightly off thus giving the experiment systematic error.  next, the scale could have been slightly off.  the weights used in measuring could have been slightly heavier or lighter than recorded on the scale.  this would cause systematic error within all our trials.  finally, the vertical support bar being unstable could account for a slight movement of the rotation point for the pendulum.  this would cause systematic error within all the data as well.  all these errors could have been accounted for if more trials were run.  they could also have been nullified by measuring both the length and mass with two separate but same tape measures and scales.  if the lab was run again, these changes would decrease systematic error by a large amount.

	random error within the experiment could be traced back to multiple issues.  error within the actual timing of the pendulum swinging could account for some error within the experiment.  also, this could have been a problem with one of the two stopwatches used within the lab.  the time it took for the stopwatch to stop could have varied throughout the lab due to excessive use on the watch.  human error can account for incorrect measurement of the true length of the pendulum as well as the true weight of the mass.  this error could be decreased by running more tests.  it could also be decreased by having a more accurate tape measure and scale.  the error could also be decreased for the timing by including a reference point from where to measure one period from.  this was used within the lab and greatly decreased the error.  

	there were multiple constraints that were present within the experiment.  these include the maximum string length that could be attained, the maximum angle of release, and finally the presence of air resistance.  the maximum string length would not allow for the creation of any size string and test it.  this also did not allow the experiment to be run on a virtually miniature scale.  the next constraint is the maximum angle of release.  with the maximum testable angle of release being 90 degrees from the vertical it could not be tested as to how the pendulum would work if the angle could be made higher.  finally, the presence of air resistance cannot be removed within the lab setting.  therefore, the factors air resistance played within the lab cannot be accounted for and must be assumed to be negligible.