discussion:

the purpose of these labs was to develop mathematical models which describe the behavior of a real system (lab 05) as well as to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value included in the model (lab 06).

the three experiments led to the resulting models by keeping the mass of the system constant, and performing multiple trials, altering the value of the independent variable. this allowed us to be able to observe the effect of the independent variable on the dependent variable in many cases. for example, in lab 5 we changed the hanging mass 8 different times, this allowed us to obverse the result of the acceleration as different masses was used to pull the cart. this helped us get data that was then plotted and graphed in order to find similarities and patterns that we could use to predict other cases when we used masses that we didn’t necessarily test. the mathematical models were the patterns that were recognized between the data, most of the data had a very strong correlation which verifies that our prediction based on the mathematical model will be very accurate to the result of the acceleration if we tested a certain mass. the physical meaning of each variable is that y is the acceleration in the cart, and x is the mass of the hanging mass pulling the cart. the numeric values in the models for example the numeric value for the slope represents the amount that the acceleration changes by when the mass increases by 1g. the numeric value for the y intercept i think, is part of the error in the lab. when the mass is 0g the cart should not move. due to the mathematical models there is some acceleration when mass is 0 but based on the fact that without a mass there is no force acting on the cart except gravity, which means that the cart should remain stationary. this means that these y intercepts are small amounts of error present in the collection of our data.

below is a picture of another group’s mathematical models in my class this data is group 2’s data.





the other group’s data and our data line up very similarly. based on their models, the y variable still represents acceleration and the x variable represents the mass of the hanging mass. our slopes are slightly different, their slopes based on their data are smaller than our slopes in the given data sets with the same number of magnets. regardless, the result of their data showed the same outcome, as the amount of friction increased by adding magnets, the lower the acceleration was. due to the fact that their results are very similar to our results it contributes to confirming that my understanding of the numeric values are correct and that the mathematical model that was created from my data is accurate in being able to predict other cases when the hanging mass if different than one of the tested values.

errors present in these experiments could have been due to timing error. in our trials we had a person start the data collection program and another release the cart at the same time. since humans arent perfect we had a slight random error at the start of each test because every now and then the data starter would start slightly earlier than the cart person. this caused the start of the data to be inaccurate and when getting the line of best fit, the error affected the outcome of the line of best fit. this is an example of random error. since the start of the data collection would have recorded a 0 as acceleration this would have caused the slope to be less steep making the acceleration lower making the data points lower than they should have been. due to the magnets not being strong enough to put in a single spot, the magnets were spread around the cart. this caused there to be inaccuracies between the different sets of trials when more magnets were added on. since we couldn’t put the magnets in the same spot for example on the last set of trials with the large and small magnet attached, the large magnet created more friction solely based off the location of the magnet compared to the smaller magnet which want facing the air track. this meant the data on the last set of trials were all with the magnets in the same location making it systematic error but compared to the other two trials the acceleration should have been slightly larger if we were able to place the magnets in the same location throughout the entire experiment.

some constraints were the number of tests we were able to perform. since we only had eight bobbers, we had a limited amount of trials that could have been run with different masses. if we had more bobbers and more tests the mathematical model would have been more accurate. another constraint was the length of the string. since the length of the string was short, we had a very small window of data collection for each trial. if the string was longer and could have stretched across the entire air track the data records for each trial would have been longer with more data points meaning the slope would have been more accurate in each trial. 

our mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law because in lab 6 as we increased the number of magnets the force decreased. this relates to newtons second law because as we increase the number of magnets, the frictional force increases, and as the frictional force increases the net force decreases. the frictional force opposes the force of tension from the hanging mass making the net force decrease.