conclusion: 

the main research question being asked in labs 01-03 is what impacts the period of a pendulum? for lab 01, the dependent variable while conducting the experiment was the number of swings (period) while the independent variables were the length of the string, the angle and the weight. this experiment found that weight and angle had little effect on the period of a pendulum. claims that were able to be made from completing this experiment include is  (1) when angle increased, time decreased, (2) when string length increased, time increased, and (3) when weight increased, time decreased. based on experiment 1 table 1 and experiment 1 graph 2, it was proven that string length had an effect on the period. the table shows that when the string length increased, the time increased. the graph is the only graph of the three made from lab 01 that had an increasing line (indicating a positive correlation). also, this graph showed the most linear line of the three. for lab 02, similar data and graphs were used from lab 01, however, some information was manipulated from the online pendulum experiment in order to come up with a standard deviation/range of uncertainty. this experiment showed that there can be systematic errors (errors with the lab equipment that can be “fixed” by replacing the broken equipment) and random errors (errors made by the researchers that can be “fixed” by obtaining an average value from multiple trials). average values were most definitely acquired to make up for the possible errors that occurred, and a standard deviation (0.06784931) was calculated by excel. error bars were put onto the graphs in order to show that range of error. since in experiment 2 table 1 the angle, friction applied, weight, and angle were kept constant to complete ten periods, this showed that constant values did not affect the period of the pendulum. the averages came out very similar, but not exact, and an average was obtained in order to correct that random error. by the time lab 03 was completed, it became very evident that the mass and angle of the string had the least impact on the period of a pendulum, therefore, leaving string length having the greatest impact. graphs 1, 2, and 3 from both experiments 1 and 2 show that there is a negative correlation between time vs. weight and time vs. angle, however, there is a positive correlation and more linear line for time vs. string length. also, errors bars that are further apart in less linear graphs indicate less correlation between the variables tested (example is  experiment 2 graph 3). more specifically, in lab 03 a photogate was used to give us a range of uncertainty of 0.001. this allowed us to obtain more accurate data. even with this fairly small range of uncertainty, string length vs. time seemed to have a greater effect on the period of a pendulum as compared to time vs. mass and time vs. angle (as shown in experiment 3 table 1 and experiment 3 graph 1). two other groups in out lab section showed very similar results, therefore improving the validity of our claim. 

in order to obtain a mathematical model, a trend line was made in excel. this allowed for us to get an equation for our data. the equation came out to be 2.0974x^0.4242 and r^2 value of 0.99818. from that r value (since it is close to 1), this proves that the regression predictions suit the data points. our experiment 3 graph 1 turned out to be nonlinear and displayed a power function trend line. from here, we could conduct a claim that our graph and data were accurate due to the fact that the trend line goes through all of the data points. from the data collected in experiment 3, this can assist us in the overall claim from all three experiments. with the accuracy from the excel functions and equations as well as the photogate, this shows similar data from experiments 1 and 2 graphs for time vs. string length; the time vs. string length graphs for all three experiments showed a mostly linear line with an increasing slope. from this, it is concluded that string length, as opposed to weight and angle, has the greatest effect on the pendulum. 

as far as systematic errors go, i am almost positive that these types of errors did not occur during this experiment. if we had lab equipment that was destroyed in some way, such as an old tape measure that had lines between the various lengths too far apart, our data from all three experiments would differ significantly, therefore, causing us to change our claims. however, this did not happen; we agreed with the claims we concluded with as we went along with the three experiments. in order to avoid these errors, it can be made sure that all lab equipment is set up and working as it should. it is known that random errors occurred in this experiment. you can see in our data tables, for example from experiment 1 table 1, the number of seconds it took for a period to be completed were different. this could have occurred from the student not conducting the multiple trials the exact same way. for example, the student could have released the string at 30.1 degrees for one trial, 30 degrees for another, 30.05 degrees for the next, and so forth. in order to correct these errors, an average of the multiple trials values was obtained. 

speaking of random errors, obtaining an average value could have allowed for a constraint while conducting this experiment. i say this because this does not allow for exact values, just a mean value. this generalizes our data and graphs as we went along with the experiments. another possible constraint could be the fact that there were restrictions on the angles at which we released the string and the length that the string could be for all three experiments. this eventually generalized the mathematical model that was acquired to support our data in experiment 3.