discussion and conclusion:

	throughout the whole experiment the concurring question that we were trying to answer each week was, “what factors impact the period of a pendulum?” over the course of three weeks we conducted multiple different tests to see which factors impact the period of the pendulum the most.  the three factors that we tested were the angle of release, the length of the string, and the mass of the object hanging from the pendulum.  after testing each factor, we created a data table and a scatter plot showing a trendline and the r^2 value for each graph.  

	while testing the angle of release we conducted 10 trials, letting the pendulum swing from a different point each time.  as soon as the pendulum was released we started the stopwatches and logged the time it took to complete one full period.  data table 1 is  angle of release vs. period will show the data points of the 10 trials that we tested.  graph 1 is  angle of release vs. period displays a trendline and the r squared value.  graph 1 indicates that there is a small correlation between the angle that the pendulum is released and the time it takes to complete one full swing.  this statement can easily be confirmed by looking at the r squared value located on graph 1.  in order to get our next set of data, we tested the relationship between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum.  each trial we changed the length of string but kept the angle of release at 50 degrees and the mass of the object hanging from the pendulum string at 110 grams.  after completing 10 different trials with 10 different lengths of the string we can conclude that there is a strong correlation between the length and the period of the pendulum.  data table 2 and graph 2 can help prove that statement.  after looking at the graphs, the r squared value on graph 2 is .9642 which indicates that the length of the string has a very big impact on the period of the pendulum.  the last test that we conducted was looking at the relationship between the weight of the object hanging on the pendulum string and the period of the pendulum swing.  throughout this set of trials, we changed the weight of the object each time and kept the angle of release at 50 degrees and the length of the string at 70 cm.  after collecting all the data points from the 10 trials we created a data table and graph in order to easily see the correlation.  if you look above at graph 3, the r squared value is in the center of the graph.  the value (.0061) indicated that there is absolutely no correlation between the weight of the object and period of the pendulum.  after sitting down and talking amongst our group we decided that the length of the string has the biggest impact on the period of the pendulum, therefore, we further continued researching this area of the experiment.  we tested 10 more “new” lengths of the string, but we didn’t use stopwatches to log our time.  in order to be more accurate with our data, we used a system called the photogate which timed the pendulum to complete one full swing.  we logged our data and created a data table and graph as seen above in data table 4 and graph 4.  the data points in data table 2 and data table 4 are very similar, as are the shape of graphs 2 and 4.  we also included the r squared value (.9799) on graph 4 to confirm the strong correlation of the data.  being even more accurate with our data showed that there is an even stronger correlation between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum which is why we can conclude that the length of the string has the biggest impact on the period of the pendulum. 

	after talking as group we decided that the length of the string had the biggest impact on the period of the pendulum therefore, we can eliminate the angle of release and the weight of the object for our mathematical model. using all the data that we collected, you can see that there is a stronger relationship between length of string (cm) and period (s) on graph 2 and 4 rather than the correlation of the angle and mass on graph 1 and 3.  using all of our trials we created a bar 

graph 5 is  normal distribution

graph 5 is  normal distributionchart showing the relationship between the period of the pendulum and the number of measurements.  the graph shows that the data points were random and there are normally distriubuted.  we found that the mean value was 1.47 (s) and the standard deviation of the graph was .269.

	after completing the last part of the experiment our team concluded that the length of the string had the biggest impact on the period of the pendulum.  using the photogate allowed our measurements to be much more accurate and trustworthy.  graph 4 located above will help support our claim because it has the highest r squared value.  graph 4 and graph 2 were very similar and almost had an identical slope and r squared value showing that it had the highest relationship with the period.  

	throughout the whole experiment there were many systematic and random errors that could have occurred.  some different systematic errors that could have been present were the balances and weights of the objects could have been weighted incorrectly, the stopwatches weren’t always stopped at the same time, the length of the string could have been measured incorrectly and same goes for the angle of release.  some different random errors that could have occurred would include the stopwatches not being stopped correctly (aka not stopping at the same time), the angle of release could have been altered just before letting go of the pendulum, and lastly, applying a force when releasing the pendulum to swing.  some other general errors that could have occurred could have been the density of the material and air resistance on the swinging object.  these errors could be reduced in the future by using more accurate instruments like the photogate, making sure the timers were all stopped correctly, and just taking more time when conducting the experiment.  in order to improve our results and make them more accurate, we could have measured the time it takes to complete more than just one swing of the pendulum, we could have used a better angle measurement strategy rather than just approximating it using a protractor, and not having any excess string which could have swayed the data by adding resistance to the swing.  overall, the experiment was very successful but there is room for improvements in the future.