discussion and conclusion:
the purpose of the lab is to develop mathematical models to describe a system, just like that given in lab 05 based on the research question “how is acceleration affected when the vertical force changes?” as shown in data table 1 and in table 1, we can see that our mathematical model was roughly . this graph showed that as the force of the system increased, so did the acceleration. the 2.45 represents the change in force over the change in acceleration. in lab 06, the model we had created was . these numbers represent various things, whether that would be force, acceleration, and mass of the system. 
in the two labs we had over the span of two weeks, we had created two different mathematical models. relating to table 1, there is a positive correlation between the force and acceleration of the object. as the force is increased in the system, so does the acceleration. the theoretical equation that was given to us in the lab was $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}}$, where a is equal to the acceleration, f is equal to the force, and m equal to the mass. our model, which was modeled off of the true experimental model $a=c1 w+c2$ , was in fact true. since our model we had obtained in table 1 was , the acceleration is equal to the force divided by the mass. this model makes sense, because if we had increased the force but kept the mass the same, this would result in a positive slope given in a graph, which is what is seen in table 1. in lab 06, the theoretical equation we were given was $a=\frac{f}{m_{sys}} + \frac{f_{ext}}{m_{sys}}$ . this represents the acceleration is equal to the force divided by the mass of the system plus any external forces divided by the mass of the system. in table 2, the model we had came up with was . since this model was considered smaller than the first model, our conclusion was mass had a negative affect on the acceleration. this meant that as we added more mass, the acceleration decreased because there was a greater force needed to start the car. we can see this as a power function with negative slope in table 2, and with a negative trend in data table 2. as the mass increases, it negatively affects the acceleration of the system.

if there was a heavy string connecting the hanging weight with the cart, the acceleration would decrease because there would be an increase of mass. there is a greater force needed in this scenario, so the acceleration would decrease.
 we had found 2 other groups in lab 06 who had performed the experiment differently. group 3 had the forwards tilt while group 2 investigated the magnetic friction. group 3 was more similar to our findings as it was around 2x plus a small y intercept. however, group 3 had different answers than we had. their findings showed much smaller numbers than we had gotten, which shows that the mass does have an impact on the acceleration of the system. since group 3 only investigated the tilt of the track and had a constant mass, it makes sense as to why their model lines up more with the theoretical model. since group 2 had a different mass for each trial, their model was a lot smaller because in this experiment, because mass has a negative affect on the acceleration of a system.

some random error we may have encountered was the timing of the start of the car. this could be inaccurate compared to when it truly “started”. we may have started the car too late, which would not ensure a correct acceleration. another source of random error we may have encountered was weighing the bobbers. we may have incorrectly weighed the bobbers on the scale, which would have made the acceleration values incorrect. some sources of systematic error may have included the graph reader itself. depending on when we started the graph reader, the system may not have included all of the graph’s motion, which would have altered the results of the acceleration. we could have reduced the error by the timing of the start of the car by hitting the start button even more earlier than we had before so we can have all of the values present in the graph. we could have also reduced the error of the weight of the bobbers by weighing them several times, then taking the average of them to ensure a more accurate value.

some constraints we may have had in this experiment was not including friction on the track. if we had included friction on the track, we could have calculated what the actual acceleration and force would be, although it would have been harder than what we would’ve had to calculate already. our acceleration values may have been smaller due to the force of friction. another constraint we may have been held to was the number of masses we were able to choose from in the experiment. we were only able to use 2 different masses, whereas if we had more masses to pick from, we may have seen a better result of how different masses affect the acceleration of the object in that system. since we did not have a variety of masses to choose from, we were not able to