conclusion statements

in this lab experiment, the research question being investigated is the question of whether variables such as angle of release, mass of the bob, or length of string can impact the period of a pendulum. 

for this question to be answered, three different experiments were conducted to determine whether there was any correlation between any of the variables, and the period of the pendulum. for the experiment dealing with the bob mass vs. time, it can be concluded that on a range of mass between 0.05 and 0.13 kilograms (kg), that there is no correlation between the mass of the bob and the period of the pendulum. a conclusion of no correlation can be made due to the observation that the error bars in the graph (figure 1) are large enough to overlap, implying that no trend of correlation can be confidently made. for the experiment dealing with the string length vs. time, it can be concluded that on a range of length between 0.1 and 3.352 meters (m), that there is a positive correlation between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum. when viewing the data produced through the trail that did not have the photogate to measure time (figure 3), the size of the error bars can make it challenging to make a strong conclusion that there is a positive correlation present. the use of the photogate to measure the pendulum period produces a much stronger support for the conclusion of a positive correlation with minuscule error bars (figure 4). for the experiment dealing with the angle of release vs. time, it can be concluded that on a range of angle between 10 and 50 degrees (°), that there is no correlation between the angle of release and the period of the pendulum. a conclusion of no correlation can be made from the observation that the error bars on the graph (figure 2) are large enough to overlap, implying that no trend of correlation can be confidently made.

the theoretical model for the period of the pendulum can be modeled as $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$] where ‘t’ represents the time, ‘l’ represents the length of the string, and ‘g’ is denounced as the acceleration due to gravity. the data displayed in the string vs. time experiment produced values that were extremely close to the theoretical values of the same length measurements (figure 4). the variables that are involved in the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum serves as additional support for the lack of correlation found in the mass and angle of release experiments (figure 1 and 2). the lack of mass value and angle of release value in the theoretical equation further supports the claim that either value does not impact the period of the pendulum. 

a systematic error that was discovered in the experiment was that the accuracy of the release angle might not have entirely accurate. an increased focus in the measurement could have been made, yet this experiment has determined that the angle of release did not affect the period of the pendulum anyway (figure 2). a variation in the exact mass of the bob could also be a systematic error, yet this is the same case as the previous error. the mass of the bob showed no correlation for the period of the pendulum (figure 1). an additional systematic error could be inaccuracy in the tape measure. mediation of this problem could have been an inclusion of a measure of uncertainty for the length measurement. a random error would be that the length of the string might have lengthened slightly after each trial. this could have been mediated by measuring the length of the string after each trial. an additional random error would be the inaccuracy in the use of a stopwatch. this error was eliminated in one experiment by using a photogate to measure the pendulum period. 

a constraint in this experiment that would limit the generalizability of our results would be the use of the photogate to take time measurements. although a similar conclusion could be found without the use of a photogate, the size of the error bars would prevent any substantial conclusions from being made (figure 3). an accurate time measurement tool is crucial to the strength of any conclusion made in this experiment. 