discussion and conclusion: 

the purpose of labs 5 and 6 was to make mathematical models that describe the behavior of a real system and to understand the variables and data values of those models.

for the first experiment in lab 5, the graph shows as the mass increases (and therefore the force), the acceleration increases. this positive linear trend can be identified in figure 2. the mathematical equation for the first experiment in lab 5 was $y=2.4245 x - 0.0243$. in this case, 2.4245 was one over the combined weight of mass 1 and 2, which was the bobbers and cart. the constant 0.0243 represents the slope of the track, which should be close to zero, which would be level (as it should be). the x value is force, in newtons, and the y value is acceleration, in m/s^2. for the second experiment in lab 5, the graph shows a negative power trend. this can be observed in figure 4. the mathematical model is $y=0.2367 x^{0.241}$. the mathematical models derived from lab 6 all follow the same structure and representation as the model from the first experiment of lab 5. the three models can be found under figure 8. the only constant that has significantly changed was the constant that represents the slope of the track. because we put the track on a backwards slope, this constant changed and became more negative the steeper we made the slope. the graphs of these three models can be found together in figure 8. one thing that skewed our results was a change in system mass from the first experiment (0.009 tilt).

the equations for the group we took a photo of below follow the same format for the first mathematical model in lab 5 that was discussed in part b above. for their first equation, the constant 2.8938 represents one over the combined weight of their m1 and m2 masses. however, the constant 0.2152 represents the slope of the track. given that they were testing for the affect of having a slope on the track, the value is significantly different than zero. the x value is force, in newtons, and the y value is acceleration, in m/s^2. as the forward angle increases, the slope of the track constant also increases, which ends up affecting the overall y value, which is acceleration. i had assumed this was to be the case and it only strengthens my understanding of the mathematical model.                                                        for the group below, the variables and constants represent the same things as discussed before. however, instead of tilting the track, they added friction to the cart’s movement. this significantly reduces the acceleration overall. by increasing the resistance or friction, they significantly reduced the value for the first constant and increased the value for the second constant.                 

our group had a particularly bad error which resulted in some skewed graphs. for the experiment in lab 6, we had changed the total mass of the system on accident between the changed intervals of height for the backwards tilt. this resulted in some particularly weird looking mathematical models. this is random error and will be minimized by paying more attention in lab and understanding the numerical values of the mathematical models. also, the mass of the bobbers was only an estimate and could have been improved upon with a better balance, which would allow for better numbers. 

the generalizability can only be taken so far, as we used oddly weighted bobbers that were most likely inaccurately measured and the model only applies to the setup within the lab. 

if you rewrite newton’s second law to solve for acceleration, you would find an easier comparison between the mathematical models derived in these labs. the models follow the pattern $a=c1 f+c2$. newton’s second law written for acceleration is $a=\frac{f}{m}$. c1 is equal to one over the total system mass, which is then multiplied by f. under the perfect conditions (where there is zero slope to the track), c2 would not exist. by this mathematical logic, our models are structurally and logically the same as newton’s second law written for acceleration.