conclusion:

		

			the purpose of the lab was to determine mathematical models which describe the behavior of a real system as well as to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value included in the model. in order to find these mathematical models, we had to take a cart on an air track and tie to a mass that was hung over a pulley and use the pulley to measure the velocity over the amount of time it took to move a distance. using this we got a graph which indicated acceleration which we then put into another graph which plotted the force from the hanging mass and the acceleration. after we found this, we were able to create a formula that showed a linear relationship between the two variables. we would change different variables to see the relationship between each one. in the first lab, we changed the weight of the hanging mass to see how the change in force affected it. the next step was to test what would happen to the acceleration if we increased the normal force. the final part had to do with magnets which increased the coefficient of friction. 

			in the formulas the slope is either 1/mass or 1/force depending on which lab you did and the b value was the friction force present in the system. we know this is true because especially on the third part of the lab where we added magnets, the only thing that changed was where the graph started but the slope was the same and this was because in that case, the slope is 1/force and we kept the change in force consistent for each trial. 
this group’s work above also proves out statement because on the white board on the left their data also showed that as you add more friction the values decreased but linear which confirms our data because our data and mathematical model had the same slope but different b values which based on this data, we can conclude that it was friction. the other groups work (white board on the right) shows us that there is also a connection between the incline of the ramp as well as the acceleration which makes sense because if you increase the incline you would also increase the force of the weight pulling against the hanging mass.

		the main error was an error in the scale, the error value that was given to us was .001 because the scale is fairly accurate. another systematic error is the track that the cart was placed on. the track is fairly smooth all the way throughout the system, but it is going to have a few locations that could be a little rougher than others which would increase the friction at some points and decrease the acceleration at that one point. there was not much room for human error because almost all of the data was plotted using computers and accurate systems.

		there are not too many limits that would limit use other than time because we had all of the resources we needed but we didn’t have much time and we used fishing bobbers for weights which work for what we need but if we were to use a smaller weight we could increase the weight slowly and see a change over a smaller increment of time. 

		they are consistent with $f=m a$ because as we increased the force we noticed that the acceleration increased. we also saw that as we changed the mass the force did not change but the acceleration decreased to match that increase in mass.