discussion and conclusion
the purpose of lab 05 was to develop mathematical models, which descirbe the behavior of a real system. the purpose of lab 06 was to build on top of lab 05 and develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value included in the model.
the first experiment in lab 05 was gravitaional force on the air cart, with the dv being acceleration of the system and the iv being the hanging force on the bobber. when collecting our data the numbers seemed to support our prediction that as the hanging force increased so would the acceleration of the system, which allowed us to use the photogate to collect the slopes of each acceleration trial to then have the data points (data table 1) plotted into a graph in excel (figure 1) to then produce an accurate trend line to provide our group with the mathematical model 1, which was $a=0.9699 f - 0.252$ where a is acceleration of the system in (m/s^2) and f is gravitational force on the bobber (newtons). our data in this trial though was thrown off due to the fact that our group used much larger masses than was what supposed to be used in the trials making our numbers in our graph/mathematical model be off from what the actual values were supposed to be.
the second experiment in lab 05 was how the mass of the air cart effected the acceleration of the system. in this trial the dv was the acceleration of the system and the iv was the mass of the system (mass of air cart). when the collection of data began the numbers tended to follow what our prediction was by the more mass added to the air cart the slower the acceleration became. the photogate allowed our group to take the slopes of the acceleration and place them into a table (data table 2) to then allow us to create a graph in excel to model the table (figure 2). finally, a trend line could be created in excel that represented a power curve to produce a mathematical model 2, which was $a = 0.00005 m^{-3.391}$ where a is acceleration of the system in (m/s^2) and m is the mass of the system (air cart mass in kg). although our data in this trial supported our prediction it was significantly off from what the equations values were supposed to be, again due to the fact that our group used heavier weights than what were required in the experiment throwing off our data from the target values. 
for the thrid experiment which was conducted in lab 06 was how the hanging force on the air cart effected the acceleration of the system. in this trial the dv was the acceleration of the system and the iv was the hanging force of the bobber (no magnets). our prediction for this trial was that as the hanging force on the air cart increased the acceleration of the system will increase as well. when the trial was conducted using the photogate to get the slope of the acceleration our prediction was supported by the data being collected (data table 3) to then allow a creation of (figure 3) in excel to produce the mathematical model 3 of $a = 2.0742 f - 0.0182$ where a is acceleration of the system (m/s2) and f is gravitational force on the bobber (newtons). in this trial our group made sure to use the correct amount of weight to produce the best results and the results in this experiment proved to be accurate and precise according to the graph that was produced. 
for the fourth experiment in lab 06 the thing tested was how the hanging force on the cart with added frictional force (one magnet) effected the acceleration of the system. in this trial the dv was the acceleration of the system and the iv was the hanging force of the bobber (one magnet). our prediction for this trial was that as the hanging force on the air cart increased the acceleration of the system will increase as well. when the trial was conducted using the photogate to get the slope of the acceleration our prediction was supported by the data being collected (data table 4) to then allow a creation of (figure 4) in excel to produce the mathematical model 4 of $a = 2.0893 f - 0.0643$ where a is acceleration of the system (m/s2) and f is gravitational force on the bobber (newtons). for this trial our prediction was still supported that as the hanging force increased so would the acceleration of the system, but with the frictional force being added the slopes of the acceleration tended to accelerate slightly slower than if the frictional force wasn’t applied, which can be represented when figure 3 and figure 4 are compared.
for the fifth experiment in lab 06 the thing tested was how the hanging force on the cart with added frictional force (two magnets) effected the acceleration of the system. in this trial the dv was the acceleration of the system and the iv was the hanging force of the bobber (two magnets). our prediction for this trial was that as the hanging force on the air cart increased the acceleration of the system will increase as well. when the trial was conducted using the photogate to get the slope of the acceleration our prediction was supported by the data being collected (data table 5) to then allow a creation of (figure 5) in excel to produce the mathematical model 4 of $a = 2.0008 f – 0.03$ where a is acceleration of the system (m/s2) and f is gravitational force on the bobber (newtons). when this data is interpreted is still supports our prediction that the as the hanging force increases so does the acceleration of the systems, but when the greater frictional force is applied the system accelerates at a slower rate which can be represented by the slope of figure 5. 
final prediction based on the 3 trials ran in lab 06 is  the final prediction is that as the frictional force applied to the system increases the acceleration of the system decreases causing the acceleration to be slower. this can be represented in the graphs of figure 3, 4, and 5, but in figure 4 it looks like even with a frictional force applied this air cart seemed to accelerate faster than the previous trial. i believe that the reason for that is when one magnet is placed on the side and one is placed on top the magnetic forces cancel each other out actually decreasing the frictional force instead of increasing the frictional force causing the acceleration to increase instead of decrease. 
how does the acceleration of a system change when the friction of the cart changes? 
group 2 that tested the same variable of friction that we did overall had the same results and conclusions as we did, their groups data varied slightly from the data that our group produced, but not great enough to challenge our conclusion that we found amongst the final conclusions. when the data is compared to group 2’s both of the data sets are supported showing that the experiment produced the correct c1 and c2 values when values from the graph are plugged into the equations. 
group 4 which tested a different variable than our group which was the tilt angle of the air cart. their data collected supports the claim that as the tilt angle of the air cart increases the acceleration of the system will increase as well. this helps the understanding of our values, because it shows that their independent variable has an impact on their values as well, but their independent variable has a slightly greater impact on their values than our independent variable, but the values tend to be very similar. 
the errors in this lab that could have been reduced are in lab 05 the systematic error of our group using larger masses, which caused our data to be thrown off significantly from the target values this could have been reduced by using the correct amount of mass. random error in both labs of assuming that all the bobbers weigh the exact same amount, this could have been reduced by weighing out each induvial bobber. finally, systematic error in lab 06, which was the magnets on top of the air cart could have canceled out the magnetic force of the magnets on the sides of the cart decreasing the frictional force applied, this could have been reduced by better placing of the magnets to ensure that the magnetic force had a correct reaction on the air cart.
constraints that were present in lab 05 and lab 06 were the length of the air cart track, the amount of mass that could be used, the amount of friction that could be applied to the air cart, and the angle that the air cart could be released at. the greater the length of the air track the more data points that could be collected to give a more accurate slope measurement, also the longer the track if more weights were provided the greater the hanging force could be tested to run more than 8 trials for the weights provided. also, the greater that the angle could be tested the faster the acceleration of the system could be tested. 
both of the experimental mathematical models represent newton’s second law because the acceleration of the system is always equal to the (mass of the system) multiplied by (the sum of all the forces), so the greater the acceleration the greater the force applied when the mass of the system remains constant.