discussion and conclusion:

the main objective in the experiments that have been done during the first three weeks is to find the variables that has an impact on the period of the pendulum. the three factors that have been tested in the experiments were the length of the pendulum, the hanging mass of the pendulum, and angle of drop of the pendulum. the results show that the length of the string is the one variable that affects the period of the pendulum. while the mass and the angle of drop have no effects on the period of the pendulum.

in the first experiment, the graph shows the relationship between the mass and the period of the pendulum. while in the second experiment, the graph shows the relationship between the angle of drop and the period of the pendulum. all the tables and graphs in the first two experiments show that the 2 factors do not affect the period since the error bars are overlap at the points. for example, when the mass was changed from 50g to 130g the period kept the same or was around 1.05. in fact there was very small changing due to some other factors, such as air resistant. that should be ignored. moreover, the results in experiment 2 show that when the angle changed from 15 to 75 the period was around 1.1 s and the small changing in significant was due to other factors, such as air resistant.  however, the graph in the experiment 3 shows that the period of the pendulum increases when the length of the string is increased which supported the group’s claim. as it obvious in the table 3 that when the length is increased from 20 cm to 60 cm, the period of the pendulum increases from 0.842(s) to 1.60(s). as result, the only variable that has an impact on the period of the pendulum was the length of the string. the theoretical mathematical model was used is $t=c$. while theatrical model was used is $t=\frac{2 \pi}{\sqrt{g}}$. the formula was used to calculate the period of the pendulum using factors of length and gravity. the formula support that the results of the  experiments are theoretically correct since the equations depend only  on the length and gravity. 

in the experiments, there were some random errors. for example, the group was using stopwatch which is depended on the reaction of people. so, the results could be not accurate; it could be bigger or smaller than the actual results. the solution of the problem was having more than one timer and not depend on one person’s timing. however, in week 3, the photogate sensor was used instead of the stopwatch. addition to the reaction of the people, air resistant could be one factor that lead to get errors in the experiments. this error may make the results higher or lower and then the actual results since it depends on the environment of the room (cold-hot-the direction of the air)

	in conclusion, the hypotheses of the mass and the angle has been proven by experiments that it is negative since the 2 factors had no impact on the period of the pendulum. while the hypotheses of the length of the string has been proven that it is positive since the length had an obvious impact on the period of the pendulum. the relationship between the length of the string and the period of the pendulum is positive. as the length is increased, the period is increases.