discussion and conclusion:



	these experiments the variables that affect the acceleration of the cart without friction were determined. in lab 5 we tested the effect of changing the applied force (iv) on the system by hanging bobbers with increasing weight off the end of a pulley system. through this testing we found that the greater the applied force, the greater the acceleration of the cart (dv). this resulted in a linear relationship with a positive correlation based on the graph of our data (figure 1). in the second part of lab 5 we found that increasing the mass of the cart (iv) decreased the acceleration of the system (dv). through our data in a graph (figure 2), it was determined that the relationship was linear and negatively correlated. after sharing our conclusions with other groups, similar results were found. in lab 6 we tested the effect of tilting the track and determining the effect this had on the cart’s acceleration. the carts acceleration increased as the tracks tilt became more negative. visible in the graphs as the tilt change so did the acceleration (figure 3). this is a negatively correlated relationship which we confirmed with other groups to find similar results.
different equations applied to these experiments. the first being newton's second law ($f=m a$). this applies as the system is nearly frictionless and the force being referred to is the force of gravity acting on the hanging mass. for lab 6 the components of forces had to be considered as parts of the horizontal net forces acting on the cart this was due to the tilt of the track.
errors in this experiment occurred due to the presence of friction. it is impossible to simulate the effects of a completely frictionless track. there is also friction between the string and the pully present. to minimize this error, we started the system from the same position and made sure there were no obstructions in order to minimize friction.
	the results determined that the applied force and acceleration have a positive linear relationship. the acceleration of the cart also increases as the angle of the track tilts forward. there is a point where the tilt does give a negative linear relationship as soon as it is tilting the opposite way.