discussion and conclusion

the research question being investigated in this lab is: what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?

the first experiment, length of the string versus period of the pendulum, addressed the research question because the length of the period seems like an independent variable that would impact the period of the pendulum. a claim that can be made is that the length of the pendulum’s string does affect its period. our group did a very good job on this experiment judging by the graph. our error bars are not very large, and our slope shows a clear correlation between the independent and dependent variables. we are very confident in these measurements. this shows the longer the string of the pendulum, the longer it takes for it to complete one period. the second experiment, weight of pendulum versus period relates to the question because it seems like a legitimate factor that would change the period. a conclusion that can be drawn is that weight does not affect the period of the pendulum. looking at the graph we created for the weight versus period experiment, our line of best fit is nearly horizontal, indicating no change. there is, however, a slight negative slope and this was simply due to human error. this means we are not very confident in our measurements. the third, and final experiment, angle of initial release versus period relates to the research question because this variable definitely seems like it would affect the period of a pendulum. a claim that could be made for this experiment is that yes, period is affected by the angle. however, looking at our group’s graph, it looks like angle is only loosely a factor of period. perhaps there needs to be a significant difference between each test. we are fairly confident about these measurements. our graph indicates the larger the angle of release, the shorter the pendulum takes to complete one period. all this data seemed to relate to the other groups in our class. others had better data for the weight experiment though.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a simple pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ t represents time while l represents the length of the pendulum’s string and g is the acceleration of gravity, 9.8m/s2. the theoretical mathematical model for a pendulum in motion is $a=\sin{\frac{g}{l}}^{0.5}t$ where a is equal to the angle. notice that the independent variables length and angle are both used for the mathematical models, indicating that these do, in fact, affect the period of a pendulum. weight is not included in this because it does not determine the length of a pendulum’s period. this is exactly what our graphs indicate as well.

errors in our experiments include stopwatch capabilities and holding the protractor imperfectly/ reading it slightly wrong. these errors are classified as random errors created by human imperfection. other errors include slippage of the string from rocking itself back and forth, causing it to slightly increase its length throughout the process, and the string was draped over the metal bar instead of going directly through. these are both systematic errors. we eventually found a way to loop the string directly through the metal bar and we used a photogate instead of a stopwatch. these were both done to reduce error.

constraints in this experiment that limited the generalizability of the results were that only a certain amount of weight could be used, the protractor is only so accurate, meaning we did not place the string exactly where it was needed every time, and the string length was limited.