conclusion:
Neither the mass of the pendulum, nor the angle of release of the pendulum affects the time it takes for the pendulum to complete a single swing-period. The length of the pendulums string will affect the period of time. In general, greater the length of the pendulum’s string, the more time each swing-period will take to complete. Looking at the graph, you can see that it is nearly a horizontal line. Therefore, time of the period does not change in perfect conditions.
We believe that using two trials per-change helped reduce the error. We believe if the tests were re-done, we would collect data with similar results.  The first graph shows that even though the mass changes the time of one period does not change. In an ideal situation, this would be even more prevalent.  The 2nd graph indicates that with the increase in length, the time of a single swing-period increases. The 3rd graph exemplifies that regardless of the release-angle, the period time does not change. Some of our data points do not match the curve exactly, due to human and other errors. Because of this, the average values help reduce error and still produce the correct line. 
Neither the mass nor the angle affects the time necessary to change the swing_period of a pendulum, while length of the string does. The greater the length of the string, the more time to travel a single swing_period will take. Looking at the graph, you can see that it is nearly a horizontal-line. 
Considering this data, we were confident the data collected is indeed accurate to the actual value, based on the graphs, the data is close together with minimal deviation. Using the error_bars, the graphs have shown insignificant error within the data measurements. 
Setting the standard-deviation to ±2, we have concluded that we have at minimum of 95.0% of our data within the area. With this, we can conclude that the true value is within the area in which our data lies with little uncertainty. 
Revised is  Mass does not affect the time it takes for the completion of a single period, while length of the string and angle does. The longer the string the more time one period will take and the lower the angle the shorter the period (mostly due to error).
Looking at the graphs,, time is the dependent_variable, and the line of best_fit relates to the independent_variable which was the length of the string, pendulum mass, and release angle. The relation between these is that the line is based on the values that we have collected and determined where the values should be for the best result. The closer the values are to the best-fit line, the more accurate they are. Based on the graphs, as well as the data, the line mainly appears within our data points, with the occasional point on the line, this indicates that the collected data is indeed accurate.
As for what affects the period of the swing of a pendulum, our graph of Length vs. Time show that length is the main factor. As the length of the string becomes greater, the time to complete a single swing period increases along a power-curve. Our power-curve is a slightly inaccurate because we did the data collection & calculations in centimeters and not meters. Meters is what the actual equation is designed for. The Angle vs. Time graph indicates that there is indeed a correlation between angle and time. As the release angle from the horizontal increased, the time needed would decrease and then would increase. The graph should have shown a relatively horizontal-line which is now known post-lab. This could be related to the release-angles chosen to release the pendulum, which were quite steep.

For the Length vs. time graph, we are very confident in the measurements taken. The tested release_angle of the pendulum was not made too high, nor to short, and the string was not made too short. The range of uncertainty of the machine use was only about 0.001. The graph followed a correct kind of curve. However, the graph did not show the correct equation due to the measurements being taken in centimeters (cm) and not meters (m). For the Angle vs. time graph, we are not as confident. Our measurements have a large amount of error considering the best-fit-line is supposed to be a straight-flat-line.
Data was recorded using a photogate and for each measurement the average out of the 6 measurements taken were used as a plotting point. This led to each graph and trendline with one being a power-curve that led to the conclusion that the swing-period is directly impacted by the length of the string. Same happened for the angle.
For the length vs. time graph, the R-squared value was 0.9984. Because of this, we were quite confident in this model. For the angle. vs time, the R-squared value was 0.7185. We are not as confident in this model due to this smaller number. Most of the points did not follow a decent curve.
Tim$e=6.283184 \sqrt{\frac{L}{g}}$. Our prediction was correct, based on the calculations the time would increase by more than double. The differences in our experimental_mathematical_model and the theoretical _model are that the theoretical__model would suggest that only length would affect the period of the pendulum’s swing with an equation that would tell the time based on the length. While our experiment__mathematical__model our equation differed slightly, and the data shows that while the length does affect the period our data shows that the angle does affect the period of the pendulum’s swing as well.
Surface Area and Air resistance were factors that were not tested that could impact the period of a pendulum. Air resistance would play a factor in the time period because the larger the object the greater the surface area, the more air resistance there would be the slower the object may swing, but if the object is smaller than there is less surface area that the air can catch ahold of and slow it down. A new question that may be asked would simply be “How does the change in surface area affect the period of a pendulum?”
If we were to perform the experiment again in order to collect more accurate data, we would measure the length in meters, as well as conduct many more trials in order to have a greater quantity and quality of data to base our graphs on.
A pendulum with a string length of 0.50 m would have a swing_period time of 1.52 seconds. The data fits with our set of data that has been collected.