conclusion: 

throughout this lab, the research question being asked was, ‘what factors have an impact on the period of a pendulum?’ in labs one, two, and three experiments were conducted to investigate those factors. these factors include the length of the string, the angle of release, and the mass of the object. 

the first factor that was investigated was length of string. the prediction created before the start of the experiment was that as the length of the string increased, so would the pendulum period. this is supported in both figure 1 and figure 2 as they both are positively correlated, even though figure 1 provides data found through a less accurate technique. this claim is valid under the conditions that the mass is 0.13 kilograms and the angle is 15°.

the second factor investigated, angle of release, was conducted soon after. this initial prediction stated that as the release angle increased, the period would decrease. as can be seen in figure 3, this was proved to be incorrect. this is supported by the fact that all the error bars are overlapping, meaning it can not be determined whether or not the period changed. this shows no correlation between the release angle and pendulum period, held under the conditions that the length of string was one meter and the mass was 0.13 kilograms. 

the last factor investigated was mass of the object. it was initially predicted that as the mass of the object increases, so would the period of the pendulum. however, similarly to angle of release, this was found to be untrue. this is seen in figure 4, as all the error bars overlap. this alludes to the fact that it is unlikely that the period changed at all between trials. like angle of release, this shows no correlation between the mass of the object and pendulum period. this is true under the conditions that length of string equals one meter and angle of release was 15°.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is a power relationship). this can be seen in figure 2, as the trendline for the power mathematical model fits almost perfectly over the provided data points. it can also be seen that the value is equal to 0.9994 which shows an almost perfect fit. this proves the initial claim that as the length of the string increases, so does the pendulum period. further, looking at figure 3 and figure 4, it can be seen that in both graphs the data points seem to be scattered around a similar time frame with no clear relationship and overlapping error bars. this helps to prove the claims stated in the conclusion above that both release angle and mass of object have no effect on the pendulum period. 

in each experiment, systematic and random error can be found. the most apparent random error is found in the use of the stopwatch. varying eyesight level and human reaction time easily affects results. this can be reduced by having multiple people time the pendulum period and then averaging the data found. systematic error was first found in the technique used to measure the length of the string. initially, the string length was used rather than the effective length of the system. this was later reduced by using the effective length when conducting the experiment again in lab 03. also in lab 03, the random error was drastically reduced by changing the technique used to time the period of the pendulum from using a stopwatch, to using a photogate. the uncertainty found in the photogate is seconds, which improves upon our initial uncertainty of 0.083447 when using the stopwatch. 

looking at the experimental setup, there are a few constraints that limit the generalizability of the results found. one of these constraints is found in the height of the pendulum. the height of the pendulums tested in this experiment could not exceed the height of the classroom. this means that the claims made can not be generalized to pendulums of a much larger size. another constraint is found in friction. the friction between the string and the anchor was unaccounted for, meaning the claims made cannot be generalized to experiments including friction.