conclusion:


the experiment of string length versus the period of the pendulum was the only experiment to show given change within the data. as seen in table 1 the data shows the difference in values. whilst more definitively the graph in figure 1 shows the error bars and visual to how the data is accurate and how the string length impacted the period of the pendulum. as seen in the data there is variance in the values that show change and in the graphs that shows major change in values and a curved line showing exactly that as the string length as it grew the pendulum grew as well. also, the error bars, that are too small to be seen, show the difference between the mean/average amongst the data on the graph. another factor is the standard deviation which when the number is lower it shows a lower difference in the data and the string lengths value is much larger than the standard deviation in the data for angle and weight which shows it variance in value and its impact on the period of the pendulum.

the experiment of the weight on the end of the string and the angle of release of the string both showed that neither impacted the period of the pendulum in any way. not only in their data in tables 2 and 3 but also in their graphs in figures 2 and 3 these factors show no affects on the period of the pendulum. as you can see in the data there is very little variance. as well as in the graphs as they are fairly flat which shows little to no change in the period of the pendulum and in their error bars on the graph which are lengthy and show the difference in the average or mean within the data. another factor is the standard deviation which is shown in table 1.2 and is when the number is lower it shows a lower difference in the data and the values for the angle and weight are much smaller than the string length which sows the low to no change in the period of the pendulum.

these three experiments all answered this research question by directly testing the three possible factors that could have possibly affected the period of the pendulum. those factors being string length, mass, and angle. as a team we hypothesized through past experience that the only factor that would directly affect the period of the pendulum would be the string length. which overall in the end was correct, the only factor that directly changed the period of the pendulum was string length.

the mathematical model for this experiment for the period of the pendulum is “$t=2.1186 l^{0.4234}$ based on the curve fit for the graph and data of string length versus the period of the pendulum. this equation directly attributes to the data that created the graph that displayed the slope and change in the period of the pendulum due to the string length for the experiment of string length versus the period of the pendulum. the equations of the weight and the angle of release can only be attributed as their ability to continually show that from their data to their graph that creates the slope and equation that also shows that as you change the angle and weight that the period of the pendulum is unaffected. especially in comparence to the equation of string length where it is evident that the string length directly impacts the period of the pendulum.

throughout the experiments there were both random and systematic errors addressed. systematic errors addressed was the possibility of malfunctioned equipment, such as, incorrectly weighted mass blocks, incorrectly calibrated timers and incorrect rulers/protractors. these errors could be addressed or solved by improving the accuracy and efficiency of the equipment used within the experiment. random errors that were possible throughout this experiment could have been slow reaction time when using the timers, incorrectly using the timers, incorrectly measuring the string and angle value. these random errors could also be addressed by more accurate equipment but also by the act of double checking your values to make sure they are as accurate as possible.

	during this experiment the generalizability of our results could be limited by a few things. the team was limited by the constraints of time, ability of the equipment and the environment. these constraints of time and ability of equipment overall limited the team’s ability to perfect the accuracy and precision of the results. whilst the environment limited the team’s ability to provide perfectly controlled air medium and outside “wind” which could affect the results of the experiment.