conclusion:
the purpose of this lab was to determine how the masses and the friction of a system impact the acceleration of the system. how would the acceleration of the system be impacted if the masses in the system were changed? also, how does the friction of the cart impact the acceleration of the system.

when determining if changing the masses would have an impact on the acceleration of the system, it can be concluded that the acceleration of the system is impacted by the masses in the system. as the force of the hanging object increased, the acceleration of the system also increased. it was also found that as the mass of the cart increased, the acceleration of the system decreased. these results proved that our prediction that the mass of the objects impacts the acceleration was correct. we also tested to see the impact that friction has on the acceleration. our prediction that as the friction increased, the acceleration would then decrease was proven true with our results from the experiment. even with most of the factors being tested in our experiment, we were not able to eliminate air resistance from the experiment. with this little amount of air resistance, there was a small amount of error in our results to incorporate for the amount of air resistance.





when comparing our results to other groups, we found that we had similar results in experiment 6. our group and the two other groups that we compared our results to concluded that as the friction of the cart increased, the acceleration of the system decreased. as the friction of the cart was decreased, the acceleration of the system increased. the results of the other groups help to back up our predictions for the experiments. with the equations that we found and from other groups, we can conclude that friction impacts the acceleration of the system. we can see that the amount of friction has a negative correlation with acceleration. as one increases, the other decreases.

our experiment included some errors. some systematic errors that could have impacted the results of our data include our balance not being correct and our tool for measuring acceleration not being calibrated. each of these errors could throw off our results. if the scale was not calibrated, the mass of our system could have been wrong, and the force of our hanging object could have been incorrect. if our measuring tool for acceleration was not correct, then our results would be wrong causing our results to be off. some random errors could include our string not being placed on the wheel correctly. if this happened, the acceleration could have been measured incorrectly. for these to be reduced in further experiments, more time would need to be taken to calibrate each measuring tool and making sure every little part of the experiment was done correctly like making sure the string was placed correctly. 

some constraints included in this experiment is the amount of mass that we test. we only tested the system on a small scale due to the room that we had. also, when wanting zero friction, we had no way to determine that the track was fully frictionless. if there was a way to determine the amount of friction our results could be more accurate. 

our models represent newton’s second law because our results proved that the acceleration of the system is impacted by the mass of the system and force being exerted. as the force was changed, the acceleration of the system changed. when the force of the hanging object increased, the acceleration increased just as the mathematical formula of newton’s second law suggests.