discussions and conclusion

the question we are trying to answer is “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?”

each of the experiments test this question by continuously testing and finding the error in the test. the first test was mainly to get a baseline of data and the accuracy of the numbers were not as relevant. in lab 01 we were simply just trying to determine which variable had a noticeable effect on the period of  a pendulum and based on our data we concluded that the only thing we tested for that affects the period was the string length. the second lab was more going over the data from lab one. we mainly determined why the values of data were off and it was because of random error. if there was a problem with the system, it would have been systematic error and we calculate for that and figure out what the systematic error was. the third lab was a combination of both labs, we eliminated the random error and added a very small systematic error. after all three labs we came to the conclusion that the only thing that affects the period is the string length and the data from out graphs and tables back this up.

$t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ is the theoretical equation for period of a pendulum. our calculated value for the period of a pendulum is $y =0.1984 x^{0.5126}$. our data fits the theoretical model because if you write a radical number as an exponent it becomes x^1/2 which is close to the number we have and we can assume that the number that x is multiplied by is close to what 2*pi * square root(1/g). the reason that we can eliminate weight and angle from being variables that affect the period is because in all of our tests, the numbers did not change noticeably and also we can determine that weight does not affect it because gravity acts on all objects with the same force so you know that the acceleration due to gravity is always the same and would not affect the period.

both random and systematic error were presented in the labs. most of it was random error because we had to drop it from a constant angle using a protractor that was not fixed to the arm and because we were using hand held timers for the first lab. once we started using the photogate, we eliminated the main source of our error and we could say the random error of using the timers was now a systematic error that we knew the value of. the one thing we could not test for was the air resistance. all of those are very minimal but can still be considered systematic error. in order to reduce error in the first lab, we had 3 people tracking the time so that we could take an average of all the numbers and get a more accurate number based on the numbers the rest of us got. in the future, could run the test in a vacuum tube to suck all of the air out so you know that there is air resistance and we could also calculate the exact center of mass of the system in order to get a more accurate string length.

one of the main constraints from this lab was time, we had enough time to get a sufficient amount of data but if we were to have more time, we could have gotten more and more values which would further support our conclusion. this was really the only main constraint because a pendulum is a fairly easy thing to experiment with and there is not a whole lot you can change to see how it affects the period.