discussion and conclusion:

the question that this lab is trying to answer is what the effect of string length and release angle on a pendulum’s period length is. the first experiment showed how to form an experiment from how to explain a setup all the way to how to test a hypothesis. the second experiment showed how to analyze sources of error in an experiment and whether it was systematic or random. error could be calculated based on data from multiple experimental trials. the third experiment showed how to represent the data collected into a meaningful graphic that can easily be understood. a graph of the data could be generated to show the trend of the data and even show how the error could affect the data using error bars. for the experiment testing if string length affected the period the hypothesis was made that if the string length is decreased the period will decrease since the pendulum will not have to move as far to complete one full period. this hypothesis was proven valid by the data. figure 1 clearly shows that when the length increased so did the period. the error is small enough that a trend must be true. this can be seen in figure 1 where the error bars do not overlap much meaning that the data is significant. for the experiment testing if the pendulum’s release angle affected the period the hypothesis was made that if the pendulum release angle is increased the period will increase since the pendulum will have to move further to complete one full period. this hypothesis was proven inconclusive by the data. figure 2 shows that there seems to be some sore of trend that causes the period to increase as the angle increases. however, as the figure also shows, the error bars overlap the data a lot, so it is hard to say for sure if there is any correlation. so, while it is very clear that there is a strong correlation between string length and period, it is not very clear if there is a correlation between release angle and period according to this data. this is likely due to error in the experiment, while the random error was almost erased since the time records where measured by the photogates, the systematic error was still a big issue. since air resistance was never factored in, it is likely it had some affect on the experiment results. the further the pendulum had to travel the more air resistance could slow it down. so, what might have been happening during the angle trial was really the larger the angle, the more air resistance. if this experiment had no air resistance there would likely be proven no correlation between angle and period. this experiment could be improved by doing more trials for each experiment to get a much stronger show of the data’s trend.