discussion and conclusion

	during this lab, we were determining what impacts the period of a pendulum. in order to test this, our group came up with three testable variables that we could test and determine the impact of that variable on the pendulum period. we tested the mass of the pendulum, the angle of release, and the string length. these variables are the only ones that we would be able to test due to lab constraints but each one of them could potentially affect the period in different ways. 

	to begin, we decided to look at the effect mass had on the system, so we placed a string in the stand and attached a weight at the bottom of it so that it would swing back and forth. using the protractor, we measured the release angle and recorded the time for the period and recorded that data, we then continued and ran 2 more trials with different weights. we took this data and graphed it to show the relationship between the mass and the period as you can see in the first graph. as you can see there is no relationship therefore the weight has no affect on the pendulum. this claim is only valid if you keep the angle of release and the string length constant because as we found in the other trials. the string length has a definite correlation to the period but because of the error, we cannot determine if the increase in the period is due to the increase in the angle of releases or if it is due to error in the lab. you can see how the error bars overlap in the last graph and in the second graph, you will see that as the string length increases, a curve is created and we were able to determine the equation of this line in terms of string length and the period. 

	our group determined the mathematical model to be $t=2.01 l^{0.498}$. if you also look at the r^2 value in the second graph, you will notice it is one which means that the equation above fits close if not perfectly with the data we found in our trial with the photogate. the mathematical model above can also be used to determine the period if you changed the weight because the weight has no effect on the period, but in order for the equation to work, it needs to be released from 20 degrees because we conclusive evidence stating the effect the angle had on the period. if we were to keep taking more and more trials with the photogate versus the stop watches, we could determine the relationship between the angle of release and the period. using this information, we can claim that the period of the pendulum has a power relationship with the string length and no relationship with weight as long as the angle of release is kept constant at 20 degrees.

	during the first lab, there was a lot of error present. for starters, the only way we had to measure the time for each period was by using stop watches so the time we recorded was entirely based upon when we started and stopped the watch. to reduce this error, we let the pendulum swing 10 times and then stopped the time so that we could divide our time by 10 so we got a more accurate number. one other error had to do with how the string was hitting arm that it was tied to, it would brush up against the metal hole it was in which would decrease the period by slowing down the pendulum over time. one other error that we couldn’t avoid was the air resistance but since this and the last one are systematic errors, the results won’t differ from trial to trial. this could be avoided by placing the pendulum in a vacuum so there is no air resistance acting against the object.  

	time was one of the main constraints as well as the height of the table. if we had all day to collect data, we could have tried hundreds of trials and gotten a very consistent value for our mathematical equations and we could have determined the relationship between the angle of release and the period. the height of the table would affect the range of values we could test though because we can only test values that are in a certain range versus if we were in an area with a very high ceiling, we could try many more string lengths. on the first day, we were limited by the stop watches, it took more time to wait for the pendulum to swing 10 times and the values were not accurate so if we had a photogate, we could have tested many more values in the time period and gotten more conclusive results on the first day. finally, if we had a large vacuum, we could have tested to see what affect air resistance had on the period and see what happened as we increased or decreased the air pressure.