discussion and conclusion

	the question researched was how the acceleration of a system change when the factors effecting it does? in the preliminary steps of the experiment, the factors that, when altered, can alter the acceleration of a system were brainstormed. the brainstorm included the masses of the blocks, the coefficient of friction, weight, distance, and applied force. of these, applied force, mass, and magnetic field were chosen to use in the following experiments.

	the first experiment addressed the research question by manipulating the independent variable, force applied to see how it effected the acceleration of the system. the controlled variable was the mass of the cart. it was predicted that there would be an increasing positive relationship between acceleration and the force applied on the system. various trials were conducted where force on the cart was added and the acceleration of the cart on the track was graphed. based on the slope readings of the cart’s velocity graphs, as the force applied increased, the acceleration also increased. this can be observed in graph 1 where there is an increasing positive correlation between acceleration and force applied, thus they hypothesis was supported. these results were also compared with the results of another group, see graph 2, and the results were the same. 

in the second experiment, the mass was the independent variable in the same research question, to see how it affected the acceleration of the system. the control variable was the force applied on the cart. it was predicted that the amount of mass on an object affects the acceleration of the object and that there would be a positive relationship between mass and acceleration. this experiment was not carried through due to time constraints. in order to combat this, trials for earlier experiments could have been conducted more efficiently where tasks were allocated to different people and the team came to an understanding of the experiment earlier on to reduce mistakes that would require retrials. the results from this experiment was gathered from another group. based on their results in graph 3, the hypothesis was supported because there was a positive correlation.

in the third experiment, the research question was addressed with the independent variable magnetic field. the control variable was the force applied on the cart. the acceleration of the cart was measured as the magnetic field around it was altered. it was predicted that as more magnets were added to the cart, meaning the magnetic field was larger, then the acceleration of the cart would decrease. the experiment was conducted where the velocity graph of the cart was recorded as it went along the track with varying number of magnets on it. based on the data retrieved in graph 4, the hypothesis was supported because there was a negative relationship between the number of magnets and the acceleration on the cart.

errors could have been reduced by running more trials to give a better picture of the trend. also, in the experiment for magnetic field, the fact that the mass was changing as magnets were added was not taken into account thus could have caused error. the mathematical model for the first part of the experiment $a=0.350877192982456 f$ where the constant was mass. in the second part of the lab, the mathematical model was $a=-0.031811 m^{-1}$ where the constant was force.