conclusion:

the question being investigated in this lab is what effects the period of pendulum. the first lab experiment was to collect a base of basic data running trials. from this we were able to make basic claims about the general trend of each effect. we were able to claim that mass had no effect on the period. table 3 shows us this by having scattered data with minimal overlapping error bars and a very loose line of fit. we concluded that the error bars proved strong data that the angle of release had a minute effect, which is shown in table 1 by a very small slope. and we also concluded that string length had a clear positive correlation with the period according to table 2 and its minimal error bars very strong r^2 score. the claims were made under the backing of the tables above and based off of the basic slope of the lines and the r^2 scores for correlation.

the theoretical mathematical model for the    $t=0.451753951452626 \pi$             is 1.418746 s. because string length was the only factor determined to affect the period, we used the trend from hat data as our mode. our model that we determined from table 2 is -0.0003 * (50)2 + 0.0404 * (50) + 0.2917 is 1.5617 s. when comparing the two it is easy to tell that they are very close. if we were to use the models from other factors, the data result would nearly be as close. this is because the trend lines for table 1 and 3 are so weak, the result would not be accurate.

there were two different types of possible error present within this experiment and they are systematic and random error. systematic is a consistent calculated error that shifts the whole entire data while random error is rather unpredictable and effects the data in many different ways. some systematic errors in our experiment could have included inaccurate measuring devices such as falsely printed rulers and protractors, as well as a delayed or faulty stopwatch. random error however could due more to human mistakes such as inconsistent release from the hand, fluctuation in the stopwatch reaction time, and mistakes in measuring lengths and angles by eye. 

in terms of addressing the issues, there are a few things that can be done. the systematic errors can be reduced by identifying them and either fixing the device or trying another one. as to where random errors can be reduced by simply more trials for more data. a constraint within this experiment that could limit the generalizability of the data would be that there was a lot of room for human error. for further improvements, a possibility would be to create a consistent a release mechanism that drops from the same angle every time and making sure the pendulum stand is being used in the proper way.