discussion and conclusion

what affects the period of a pendulum?

each experiment tested whether the independent variable affected the period of the pendulum. the results concluded that the length of string was the only variable with a correlation to the length of the period. the other independent variables, mass of pendulum and angle of release, had no relationship to the length of the pendulum’s period. looking at the graphs above, the graphs of angle of release vs period and mass of pendulum vs period are both randomly distributed, while the graph of length of string vs period has a positively directly related to the length of the period of the pendulum. the claims made are all valid if the acceleration due to gravity is -9.8m/s2 and if the material of the string of the pendulum is not stretchy. 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period is  ; where “t” is length of the period, “g” is acceleration due to gravity, and “l” is the length of the string. the equation with our data is  .  our r2 was 0.9997. other groups’ coefficient value was extremely close to 2 as well, so this shows us that our trials were relatively accurate.  since our r2 value is so close to 1.0, our results were accurate. the farther the r2 value is, the more incorrect the results. from this equation, it is evident that the length of the string is the only independent variable which affects the length of the period. with the graphs, the equation also proves as length of string increases, so does the period. since neither the mass of the pendulum nor the angle of release are mentioned in the equation, there is no direct relationship between the length of the period and those independent variables. this is also shown in the graphs above.

some random errors in each experiment include the timing, specifically in experiment two and three. since we were timing by hand and not using the photogate, the lengths of the periods could be slightly skewed. the photogate could have caused systematic errors of plus or minus one second as stated in the lab handout. other random errors could have been caused by using the protractor to measure the angle of release, and the tape measure to measure the length of the string. to reduce the impact of these errors, we timed each trial for five periods, then we divided that time by five to find the average time per period. for the angle of release and the length of string, we did multiple trials of a single angle and length, in case we measured incorrectly, it would show in our data. 

some constraints of this experiment are that we only tested three possible independent variables and that we had a limited number of trials completed. if we tested more independent variables, we might find another variable, in addition to the length of the string, which would affect the length of the period. for each independent variable, we tested five specific masses, lengths, or angles three times for a total of 15 results per experiment. if we expanded the amounts of different masses, lengths, and angles, we would have a larger set of results and more accurate- less generalized results.