conclusion:
This lab was conducted over the span of two weeks.  During the first week, the overall purpose for the lab was to develop two different mathematical models for two different sets of data for our system.  The purpose of the second lab was to explore those mathematical models, figure out how the physical setting of the lab would impact the results, and fully understand each variable and numerical value that was included throughout the experiment.  In the first lab we conducted two different experiments.  This experiment was conducted to calculate how the force applied and the weight of a system can affect the acceleration of overall system.  For the first experiment our independent variable was the force applied, so in terms of the lab setting, we increased the weight of the bobbers hanging from the string.  After completing eight different trials and increasing the force applied (bobbers) each time, we created a table, graph and mathematical model located in Figure 1 above.  The graph showed a positive correlation between our two variables which means that the force applied to the system does affect the overall acceleration of the cart.  When we created our graph, we put a trendline in and received an equation.  The equation that we received was our mathematical model and it can be viewed above in Figure 1 as well.  The equation that we received was linear, so it was in $y = m x+b$ form.  In the equation the slope represents the acceleration of the cart and the y intercept represents the external forces acting on the cart.  The y intercept is so low because the track was nearly frictionless therefore there wasn’t much of a force acting against the cart.  For the second experiment in lab 5, we did almost the exact same thing, but we changed the independent variable.  So, for the second lab, our independent variable was changed from the force applied to the mass of the overall cart.  We conducted a total of seven different trials so, we tested seven different weights of the cart with the same force applied and compared the results from experiment one.  After completing the seven trials we went through the same process as before; we created a table, graph and a mathematical model with the data points that we received.  The equation for this experiment was exponential but, the slope and y intercept values still mean the same.  The graph, table and mathematical model seen in Figure 2 above shows a negative correlation between the acceleration and mass of the cart.  These two experiments and the information we received concluded the first half of the two-day lab.  In lab 6 which is also the second day of the labs, we almost did the same exact thing.  The only difference was that we added friction by taping magnets to the cart.  In this lab we did two experiments, for the first one we only used two magnets and for the second one we used four.  For both parts of the lab the independent and dependent variables stayed the same, the thing we changed was one of the control variables.  For the first experiment the control variable was 2 magnets (Table 3).  We conducted a total of 8 trials with 2 magnets and the results are listed above in Figure 3.  We received another mathematical model which is also listed in Figure 3 above.  The slope and y intercepts all mean the same but for the experiments in lab 6 they should be higher than the other two because we added an external force of friction.  After completing the trials with 2 magnets we went through the same process and completed 8 trials with 4 magnets (Table 4).  We then received a mathematical model, table, and graph.  After looking over the mathematical model for the second part of the experiment which is listed above in Figure 4, we confirmed that as friction increases, the acceleration of the system WILL decrease. 

After completing and receiving all the necessary data, we got the chance to share and compare our results with other groups in our class.  As you can see below in Figure 5 these are the results from lab 5 and in Figure 6 the results from lab 6.
The results that we received from other teams as seen above in Figure 5 and 6 can confirm that the mass of the system and force applied will affect the overall acceleration of the cart.  After looking at Figure 5, it is very easy to notice that most of the teams got a very similar equation which means the data is consistent and accurate.  For lab 6 our values compared and were very close to the values the Group 2 (right side of Figure 6) received. Our conclusion was very similar to theirs and we had the same evidence.  
	Throughout the whole experiment there could have been multiple different errors that occurred.  Some of those errors could have been the bobbers swinging during the tests, there could have been an uneven distribution of weight on the cart which could relate to random errors.  The only way that we could reduce the errors were taking our time and making sure everything is perfect before starting a trial.  Some improvements that could be made to the experiments could be having a better way to calculate the mass of the cart and the bobbers.  There easily could dhal been some human error in measuring the weighs of the objects that were used.  Some constraints in the experiment that could limit our ability of generalizing could be only doing eight trials.  We could only conduct eight trials because we didn’t have enough weights to keep increasing the force applied and the mass of the cart.  Another constraint could have been the length of the string that the bobbers were hanging from.  Our string would only stretch far enough for the cart to be pulled back 2m.  If the string was increase and we could pull it back to 5m, results could have been a little bit different.  But we worked with what was in the lab setting to get the most accurate results for this experiment.  
	These two mathematical models are consistent with Newtons Second Law ($F = m a$) because throughout the experiment we were changing the mass and the force applied to receive a changed acceleration.  After completing the lab, we found that if the force applied is decrease and the mass of the system is increased, the acceleration will decrease as well and vice versa.  We tested this hypothesis with and without friction and it was consistent.  If friction is increased, then the acceleration will decrease and if friction is decreased, the acceleration will increase. So, all in all, we can confirm our hypothesis for both labs.  If the mass is increased, the acceleration will decrease and in the friction is decreased the acceleration will increase. 