discussion and conclusion:

the research question that is being investigated is: what are the factors that impact the period of a pendulum?

the first of the three experiments addressed the research question by testing to see if the angle of release would impact the period of the pendulum. the claim that was made was that the larger the angle, the longer the period would be. according to the data that was collected through this part of the experiment, the larger the angle, the shorter the period ended up being, therefore it gave us a negative correlation between our dependent and independent variable. the second of the three experiments addressed the research question by testing to see if the mass of the pendulum would impact the period of the pendulum. the claim that we made was that when more mass is added to the pendulum, the shorter the period would be. according to the data that was collected through this part of the experiment, the mass and period have no correlation. the third and final experiment of the three addressed the research question by testing to see if the length of the string would impact the period of the pendulum. the claim that was made was that the longer the string was, the longer the period would be. according to the data that was collected through this part of the experiment, as the length of string increased, so did the period, therefore showing a positive correlation between the dependent and independent variables.

the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is determined by $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. the mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is determined by $t=c1 l^{c2}$.  through the three experiments it was determined that the length of string was what most impacted the period of the pendulum. the mass of the pendulum and the angle of release can be ruled out because they have no correlation between the dependent and independent variables, but still needed to be kept constant during the testing of the theoretical mathematical model. the data that was gathered from the length of string versus period graph when plotted proves the claim that the period will increase as the length of string increases. this can also be proven by plugging in data points off the table into the equation above to calculate the period at specific string lengths.

there were many systematic and random errors that were present in these three experiments. the random errors include is  inaccurate measurements taken while measuring the string or the angle at which the pendulum was released, as well as the reaction times when timing the period of the pendulum using the stopwatches. the systematic errors include is  the possible mis-calibration of a balance that was used to measure the mass of the weights, the protractor that was used could have been incorrectly calibrated, the measuring tape that was used to measure the string could have been incorrectly calibrated as well, and the stopwatches that were used to time the period could have had a defect in their counting. all these errors could be or were reduced by using machines or non-human methods to measure the length of the string as well as to pull the pendulum back to the same angle. also, using a photogate or other type of sensor to time the exact period; and if not a photogate or sensor, the stopwatches could be used to take a large amount of data to then be averaged together to get a more accurate and less flawed result.

the constraints that may limit the generalizability of the results can be confined to a few things. one, the masses that were tested could only go up to a maximum of 250g, before we ran out. two, the length of string could only be so long due to the placement of the bar holding it up and its maximum distance from the floor. and three, the angle of release could be released from a maximum of only 90 degrees. all of these factors play into the limit of the generalizability of our results.