 The experiments conducted were done in order to answer the question; what variables impact the time period of a pendulum? 

 The first experiment was conducted in order to test whether the independent variable, mass, would affect the dependent variable, time, being the period of a pendulum. Despite the differing masses tested, our claim that there was no correlation between the variables was proven true. Graph 1 shows that the period of the pendulum for all masses tested were all within one tenth of each other.
The second experiment was to test whether the angle of release of the pendulum would affect its period despite being the same mass and attached to the point of contact at the same length for all these trials. Our claim was that there was no correlation between the variables, and it was proven true. Graph 2 supports this claim because of the no-slope line created by the points.
The third experiment tested whether the length of the string the pendulum was attached to would affect its period. Our group claimed that there is a correlation between the pendulum’s period and the length of string it is attached to. This is proven to be correct by Graph 3 which shows the period of the pendulum increasing at a constant rate. The length of string was the only independent variable affected by gravity in different ways compared to its constant acceleration on all masses at all angles of release tested.
 The theoretical mathematical model of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. Our data fits this model because the higher the value of L, the period of the pendulum, T, will reflect that in an increase of time to complete one period. Although we tested mass and angle of release as well, they do not have any impact on the period of a pendulum especially since they are not variables in the equation.

 The random errors present would be human errors in measuring the length of the string, measuring the angle of release, and use of the stopwatch to record the time of one period of the pendulum. These random errors were minimized by having the same person conduct the experiment while another timed it based on a mutual verbal countdown. Our group was not able to discern systematic error granted the error bars on our graphs are too small.
 There were no constraints present that would limit the generalizability of our results.