discussion and conclusion

	the main question in these labs were, “what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings?” in the first part of the experiment was the length. in figure 1a, we can see that, with the help of the r-squared value, the data closely relates to an exponential equation. after conducting this part of the experiment again in the last lab, we looked the equation for a pendulum’s period and noticed that our graph had a similar correlation. the equation only had one variable, which was length. this contradicts our data with figure 3a, which shows a positive, linear correlation. we later learned that, although our data was correct, the angle does not affect the period when it is under 25 degrees. in our tests, shown in table 3, we tested angles above this, which means that we would have seen a correlation between the two, which there was not. for the other variable tested, we noticed that it did not have any correlation, shown in figure 2a. we claimed that the angle of release and the mass of the pendulum do not have any impact on the period, given that the angle is under 25 degrees. we also claimed that there was an exponential increase in period as length increased.

	the equation for a pendulum’s period is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, where l is the length and g is the acceleration due to gravity. our data closely fits with this because our coefficient is .1862 and the coefficient of the equation, on earth, is 2.007. the difference between these is likely due to air resistance and not setting the intercept of our function to (0,0). our exponent was .5152 where the exponent of the function is exactly .5, which is also likely due to air resistance. our angle of release, 10 degrees, could have also caused a slight deviation because of uncertainty in the measurement. the mass could have had a small effect in this uncertainty due to decreased mass as we wound up the string.

	there were multiple possible errors in our experiments. some systematic errors was the mass being a little under 50g, causing slight to no deviation from the true value. another systematic error could have been from the photogate being slow, or fast, which is not known. although the photogate consistently did this, we could not have know whether it was slow or fast but it was constant, giving us the general equation derived in figure 1a. a random error could have been rounding to the nearest centimeter. in the future, this could be prevented by getting a measuring tool measuring millimeters and rounding to the nearest millimeter. another random error could have been the tightness in the string. although we did not test for this variable, it could have been a factor in determining the equation. this could be prevented in the future by cutting the string as we go along and determining a set point to tie it from. some constraints in this experiment was the length of the string. we were given a set amount of string and a certain height of a bar to tie it from. this limits the generalizability of the results because we do not know the effect of length at a large distance.