discussion and conclusion



how does different pendulum set-ups change the time of one pendulum period?

during the string length vs pendulum period experiment, we saw a correlation between the two.  originally, we thought it was a linear correlation based on week 1’s graph, however, after week 3 when we redid it with the motion sensor reducing error, we saw that it had a power correlation.  based on this we can claim that string length has a positive correlation with pendulum period, meaning as string length increases so does the pendulum period.  while completing the mass vs pendulum period trials we found there was no correlation between the two.  at first it appears that they also have a positive correlation, but once you add error bars, to the graph from week 1, based on errors that can occur during the testing it shows they have no correlation.  finally, during the angle of release vs pendulum period we were able to see almost right away that they had no correlation from the original graph, however once we added error bars in week 2 you could see even clearer the angle of release didn’t impact the string length.

the mathematical representation of a pendulum period is $t=2$.  the t represents the time of one period, the l stands for length of string, and g stands for gravity.  this makes sense based on our graphs and data collected, because the one independent variable we saw impacted the pendulum period shows up in the equation.  we know that when the string length increases so does the pendulum period, so they must add a spot in the equation to input the string length.  mass and angle of release have no correlation to the time of a pendulum period, so there is no need for either of them in the equation.

during our trials there was random error since we had humans taking the time of each trial.  in order to minimize this random error, we took six trials at each different point and averaged them.  during week three where we had the time reader hooked up to the computer to output our results for us, the computer automatically averaged the pendulum swings giving us the most precise reading.  in the graphs we could see the different error bars which showed the different errors that allowed us to visually see what the graphs would look like if there was no error.

looking back at the experiment i think the amount of error was limited, however, there is always going to be error in any experiment.  one thing that could have helped was conducting more trials if we would have had more time, or if we had better testing materials to use in order to ensure that everything remained the same each trial.  with the amount of time we had and the materials we were given we did the best we could in order to ensure we eliminated constraints.