conclusion:
The slope of the graph and the angle of the track are inversely related while the y-intercept is directly related to the angle.

This lab created mathematical models that describe the behavior of a system and was used to develop an understanding of each variable and numerical value for one of those models.
In each lab, the data was collected and graphed with a line of best fit. The equation that came from that line is the mathematical model. For experiment one of the lab, an Acceleration vs Force graph was created and had a linear model  as can be seen in figure 4. Changing the variables to match those that were used gives us . In order for this model to work, the units need to match up. Because of this .031 needs units of 1/kg to cancel out the kg in force and make acceleration and .1497 has units of m/s^2 to add with the new acceleration to produce the final acceleration of the system, a. The kg is the mass affected by the force of gravity and the .1497 is base on the acceleration of the system and as the angle increases, gravity acts more on the system in the y-direction because the normal force of the track gets further away for the vertical direction.

	For experiment 2 in lab 5, the acceleration of the system was compared to the mass added to the cart (See figure 5). The data from this experiment gave a power curve of  and was different from others because again it was measured in grams and the mass for others was added to the hanging total and not the cart. Our data however still shows the trend that was gathered by others but represents it differently. (see figure 6)

	In lab 6, further testing was done on the linear mathematical model in the form of $a=C1 F+C2$. Figure 16 shows how there is an inverse relationship between the slope of the graph and the angle of the track as well as how the y-intercept relates directly to the angle, meaning that if the angle increases, so too does the y-intercept. This supported the claim that the model represents  due to the slope of the force
representing 1/mass. Having 1/mass multiplied by force would give an inverse relation from the mass accelerating in the y direction, which is why it increases as the angle decreases because the normal force cancels out more of the force of gravity on the system the closer the track is to level. 
At first, it would seem that group 3’s data challenges ours; however, this is not the case. The reason for this difference is that the experiment set up was different. That is, theirs added height to the end with the pully and thus negating their angle. Once doing this with their data. Group one had a very similar setup and hypothesis and their data supported ours.

In the beginning, the track was not level which could change our data. The correlation would be the same however we still did our best to level out the track. That said it was not perfect but should not affect what we were looking for. Another error could have been from the startup time of the track as it would accelerate slower at the beginning if the air was not instantaneous. This was delt by picking data slightly after the beginning of each run.
	In our experiment, we at first did not convert to kg and so the proportion would be off for those experiments and would make it not very generalizable.
Our two mathematical models, $a=0.031 F+0.1497$ and $a=2.9153 m^{0.234}$, are in the form $a=\frac{f}{m}$ which can be manipulated to get $F=m a$.