discussion and conclusion



the goal of this experiment was to identify what factors impact the period of the pendulum.



the independent variables were isolated and tested against the hypothesis.


the dependent variable ‘period of the pendulum’ was measured against the isolated independent variable ‘mass of the pendulum’. 

the length and the angle of release were made controls. 

multiple trials were taken for the period. the time taken for 5 swings was measures and divided by 5 to convert to period.

before adding the equivalence criterion, the line of best for period vs. mass of pendulum release is linear and has a negative slope. 

this indicates that the mass of the pendulum affects the period of pendulum.

after adding equivalence criterion, the values of the period of the pendulum measured against varied masses lie within 2 standard deviations with 95% confidence. the uncertainty is 0.050997168. 

the dependent variable ‘period of the pendulum’ was measured against the isolated independent variable ‘length of the pendulum’. 

the mass and the angle of release were made controls. 

multiple trials were taken for the period. the time taken for 5 swings was measures and divided by 5 to convert to period.

before adding the equivalence criterion, the line of best for period vs. length of pendulum is linear and has a positive slope. 

this indicates that the length of the pendulum affects the period of pendulum.

after adding equivalence criterion, the values of the period of the pendulum measured against varied lengths lie within 1 standard deviations with 99% confidence. the uncertainty is  0.025498584. 
the dependent variable ‘period of the pendulum’ was measured against the isolated independent variable ‘angle of release of the pendulum’. 

the mass and the length of the pendulum were made controls. 

multiple trials were taken for the period. the time taken for 5 swings was measures and divided by 5 to convert to period.

before adding the equivalence criterion, the line of best for period vs. angle of release is linear and has a negative slope. 

this indicates that the angle of release of the pendulum affects the period of pendulum.

after adding equivalence criterion, the values of the period of the pendulum measured against varied angles of release lie within 1 standard deviations with 99% confidence. the uncertainty is  0.025498584
based on the above results, length is the only factor affecting the period of the pendulum.

to establish a relationship between length and period, another 10 values of period were measure against the length of the pendulum. 
this time a more accurate device i.e. a photogate was used to measure the period to reduce uncertainties and human error. 

the graph of period vs. length was found to have a power trendline. the line of best fit is given by the equation is 
reduce magnitude of angle of release

use of systematic release of pendulum

have multiple people take the measurements

increase the number of trials and take the mean

increase the number of swings to allow a greater reaction time.

check the measurements of the tool used against other tools 

verify tool is being read correctly
angle of release has to be within 40 degrees ensure swing stability

using a point-mass (minimum surface area) can reduce the effect of air resistance