conclusion:

with these three experiments we wanted to find the different factors that affect a pendulums period. for the first experiment we first thought of the different factors that could affect a pendulums period to slow down or speed up. we found that the three factors are the mass the pendulum, the angle the pendulum is dropped, and the length of the string the pendulum is hanging from. after we found the three factors, we set up tables with our dv and iv’s, our hypothesis, and the prediction we made for each one. after testing the three factors which is shown above in table#1-3 and we found that the length of the string affects the pendulum the most. the weight doesn’t really affect it that much and we also found that the angle it is dropped affects it slightly but not as much as the length. the second experiment was about finding the errors that we could have done in experiment one but only testing one factor. so, we decided that the factor we should test was the angle because it was easy to have human error and we could make the setup better and easier to read the angle. after we tested it again, we got more accurate measurements, but it still didn’t affect it as much as the length. for the last experiment we did the length vs time factor but this time we used a machine called a photogate to measure the period of the pendulum very accurately. mathematically the two factors that should affect the pendulum would be the length of the sting and the angle the pendulum is dropped. but as we see with our data above that the data isn’t consistent. with the weight, it shouldn’t affect the pendulum at all but in table#1 we can see a little change in each measurement, and this is most likely the human error of the stop watch and angle we dropped and caught the pendulum at. also, mathematically the length and angle should be linear but as we can see above that the angle goes up, but it isn’t consistent. we can also see that the length is better than the angle, but it still isn’t exactly linear as it should be. there are many errors that could cause our data to be messed up. with random errors it could be as simple as not starting that timer at the same time we dropped the pendulum or not dropping the pendulum at the same angle. for the first two experiments we can also say that when stopping the stopwatch, it could have been stopped early or late to when it was caught. with systematic error there isn’t as many errors compared to random error, but one error could be not having the right length for the pendulum but preforming it for all the trials. a way that we tried to get random error out is in the second experiment we recorded our pendulum and watched it in slow-motion with the time in the background to see when exactly the period ends and at what time. some constraints that we faced were that we couldn’t decide on how we should do the experiment and had to redo a lot of measurements over again.