discussion 



in this experiment, three variables – angle, mass, and string length - were tested to determine which affected the period of the pendulum.  for the first variable, angle, it was hypothesized that a change in angle of release would affect the period. this was tested by releasing a pendulum from angles ranging between 5 and 30 degrees, as seen in table 4, while the mass of the pendulum and the string length were kept constant. results for this can be seen in graph 1. it was concluded from this experiment that the angle of release had no significant effect on the number of periods that the pendulum experienced. the average number of periods was 14 and the standard deviation was calculated to be 0.74, meaning that there was not a large range in the resulting values.  error bars in the graph represent the calculated error for this experiment, and their small size indicates that the range of error is small. the slope of this graph is represented by $y=0.0419 x + 13.23$. the hypothesis for this variable was shown to be unsupported, as angle did not appear to affect the number of periods. 

	for the second variable, mass, it was hypothesized that mass would have no affect on the number of periods experienced with length of string and angle kept constant. this was done by changing the mass of the pendulum between 50g and 250g, as shown in table 5, and observing the effect on the number of periods. results for this can be seen in graph 2, and errors bars represent the calculated error for this experiment, and their small size indicates that the range of error is small. it was concluded that, like angle, mass had no considerable effect on the number of periods experienced by the pendulum. the average was 13.5 and the standard deviation was calculated to be 0.41, meaning that there was not a large range in the resulting values. the slope of this graph is represented by $y=0.0039 x + 13.155$.  the hypothesis for this variable was supported, as mass did not appear to affect the number of periods. 

	for the third variable, string length, it was hypothesized that there would be an inverse relationship between string length and period, meaning that as string length decreased, number of periods would increase. this was tested by altering the length of the string, seen in table 6, of the pendulum and observing the results on the number of periods. results for this experiment can be seen in graph 3. it was concluded that the string length of the pendulum had a significant impact on the number of periods. as string length decreased the number of periods increased, and this supports the hypothesis that there is an inverse relationship between the two.  the slope of this graph is represented b$y=56.197 x^{0.358}$. the standard deviation was calculated to be 5.32 and errors bars are depicted in the graph representing this, which makes sense given that the resultant values varied over a great range. 

	from the conclusion that string length was the only variable of the three tested that affected the period, a fourth experiment was performed measuring how string length affects the time elapsed between periods using a photogate measuring device. results for this can be seen in table 7 and graph 4. it was observed that string length had a direct relationship to the time elapsed between periods, meaning that as string length decreased so did the elapsed time. the mathematical model for this graph was calculated to be $t=2.063 l^{0.0412}$. the theoretical equation for this experiment is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ . these are shown to be very similar to each other and supports that the model generated in the experiment is accurate, with the minor differences potentially due to human error when performing the experiments. the standard deviation was calculated to be 0.63. error bars are too small to be seen on the graph due to its very small value. 

	sources of error in these experiments are reaction time when using the stopwatch, measurement interpretation of the number of periods, and the body positioning of the person releasing the pendulum. when using the stopwatch, reaction time will differ between rounds, as it is nearly impossible to stop the stopwatch at the same time every round. even small differences in reaction time can alter the measurement of the number of periods. with that, the interpretation of the number of periods can also change depending on the person and their interpretation of what a period is. a third source of error is how the pendulum is released every round. the way that a person stands or is positioned can change how the pendulum is released, and may therefore change how many periods the pendulum experiences. efforts were made to ensure that the pendulum was released from the same angle when angle was a control, but again differences in body posturing can change how the pendulum falls.  systematic error was not expected for these experiments, but potential sources could be the calibration of the stopwatch. if the stopwatch is not calibrated correctly, it may give inaccurate readings for time and therefore change how the number of periods is interpreted. constraints that exist in this experiment is that the maximum length of the pendulum that we could test was 1.55m, meaning that the mathematical model generated is only applicable to pendulum lengths equal to or shorter than 1.55m. 

	in conclusion, the only variable to have an effect on the period of a pendulum was the string length. it was observed to have an inverse relationship on number of periods and a direct relationship to the length of time elapsed between periods. this supports the hypothesis that there is an inverse relationship between the two. 


