discussion and conclusion: 

the question of what impacts the period of a pendulum was addressed in this portion of our lab by testing the hypothesis that the period of the pendulum is dependent on the mass of the pendulum bob. through changing the mass of the pendulum bob and getting the period for each mass and then graphing the periods vs mass, we saw no correlation between the mass of the pendulum bob and the period of the pendulum. this leads to the claim that the period of the pendulum of is independent of the mass of the pendulum bob, countering our original hypothesis. this claim is supported by the error bars on our graph as by placing a straight line through the data, we can see that all the points have error bars covering the same line, meaning we can say with 95 percent confidence (at 1 standard deviation), that the actual values follow a straight-line trend. this confirms our claim that the period of the pendulum of is independent of the mass of the pendulum bob.
during the first lab on jan 23rd, when testing the angle of release as the independent variable for effecting the period of the pendulum, we set our pendulum to a 12in length of the string and a mass of 90 grams. we used two stopwatches to measure the length of the period by letting the pendulum swing back and forth 5 times, averaging the two stopwatch times and dividing by 5. we set one period to be when we visually saw the pendulum momentarily stop at the end of the period. this had contributors of the timing method, the measurement of the angle by eye, and the changing angle of release. the angle was changed at 5-degree intervals from 5 degrees to 25 degrees. 
after completing the first lab of mass we then evaluated the error of the graphs in lab 2 on february 5th by taking data from the original lab (or from the online pendulum simulator for the lab make up) and added error bars to the graphs to show if changes in our data were significant or insignificant to see is a relationship existed in the data. 
this picture shows how the pendulum as attached to the 12in string and consistently released with a 90-gram mass, changing the angle with a protractor. 
the above graph and table show the data from the lab 01 where the angle of release of the pendulum was changed as the independent variable. the graph shows a straight horizontal line, indicating there is no correlation between the angle of release and period of the pendulum. 
the above graph shows the uncertainties added to the graphs from the first experiment in the form of error bars. we estimated this uncertainty by setting the length of the error bars to the length of two standard deviations of the data (different than mass with one standard deviation to allow for straight line fit). this gave us the range of values that could be the actual value based on the value measured due to errors in the measuring techniques and equipment used. a straight line was added to the graph to see if the possible actual values could fit onto a horizontal straight line, which did fit the data, indicating a true horizontal line relationship.  
the question of what impacts the period of a pendulum was addressed in this portion of our lab by testing the hypothesis that the period of the pendulum is independent on the angle of release of the pendulum bob. through changing the angle of release of the pendulum bob and getting the period for each angle and then graphing the periods vs angle of release, we saw no correlation between the angle of release of the pendulum bob and the period of the pendulum. this leads to the claim that the period of the pendulum of is independent of the angle if release of the pendulum, supporting our original hypothesis. this claim is supported by the error bars on our graph as by placing a straight line through the data, we can see that all the points have error bars covering the same line, meaning we can say with 90 percent confidence (at 2 standard deviations), that the actual values follow a straight-line trend. this confirms our claim that the period of the pendulum of is independent of the angle of release of the pendulum. 
during the first lab on jan 23rd, when testing the length of the string as the independent variable for effecting the period of the pendulum, we set our pendulum to 15-degree angle of release and a mass of 90 grams. we used two stopwatches to measure the length of the period by letting the pendulum swing back and forth 5 times, averaging the two stopwatch times and dividing by 5. we set one period to be when we visually saw the pendulum momentarily stop at the end of the period. this had contributors of the timing method, the measurement of the angle by eye, and the changing length if string. the length of string was changed at 3-inch intervals, starting at 6 inches and ending at 18 inches. 
after completing the first lab of mass we then evaluated the error of the graphs in lab 2 on february 5th by taking data from the original lab (or from the online pendulum simulator for the lab make up) and added error bars to the graphs to show if changes in our data were significant or insignificant to see is a relationship existed in the data. 
finally, in the third lab, we removed error by using an infrared beam to automatically time the period of the pendulum and changing the length of the string in cementers from 20 to 180 centimeters (0.2 to 1.8 meters), at 40 cm intervals. we then graphed this data and created an equation from the graph by adding a trendline in excel. we also added error bars to the graph to ensure the results were significant. 
this picture shows how in lab 01, the length of the string was changed in inches, with a consistent mass of 90 grams and angle of release of 15 degrees. 
this picture shows in lab 3 how the pendulum was attached to a string that had a measured length in centimeters, with a consistent mass of 90 grams and angle of release of 15 degrees. the pendulum swung through the black device n the bottom, breaking an infrared beam, timing the period of the pendulum. 
the above graph and table show the results from lab three where we measured length in centimeters and had an automatic infrared timing system for the period of the pendulum. 
this graph shows a power curve trend in the length of the string versus the period of the pendulum. this means the length of the string has a positive correlation with the period of the pendulum, so as one increases, so does the other. we were able to create a power curve trendline on the graph, which had a 0.9999 r2 value, meaning the curve was a very good fit of the data. we then used excel to create an equation of $y=0.93254091 x$  for the relationship between the length of the string and the period. there are also error bars on this graph, however they are too small to see, meaning out values are very close to the actual values and results are significant. 
the question of what impacts the period of a pendulum was addressed in this portion of our lab by testing the hypothesis that the period of the pendulum independent on the length of the string. through changing the length of the sting in multiple labs and getting the period for each length and then graphing the periods vs length if string, we saw positive power cure relationship between the period and length. this leads to the claim that the period of the pendulum of is dependent of the length of string of the pendulum, supporting our original hypothesis. this claim is supported by the error bars, as we can see that all the points do not cross over, and that the error bars are too small to see, meaning our values are unique and that our power curve relationship is accurate. 
our equation of $y=0.93254091 x$  can, where y is the period be said to be an accurate representation of the data as our mathematical model supports and is very similar to the theoretical model. in the theoretical model of $t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$, the power of 2pi(length/gravity) ^ (1/2) is very close to our exponent of 0.4481, or about 0.5. this means our equation would be 2.0811*(length)^ (1/2), where the 2pi/square root of gravity term is 2.007, very close to our coefficient of 2.0811.
some constraints we have with this experiment are how consistent we are with releasing the pendulum ourselves, how much we can vary the angle of release of the pendulum due to the set-up apparatus, as well as how much we can vary the length of the string due to the setup apparatus. this effect the generalizability of our results as we can only state what we found is true for a limited angle of release and a limited length of string. 
many of the random errors were due to the measuring technique, as in lab01 we used devices such as rulers and protractors that varied results based on measuring technique and who was measuring. we also had errors with our time recording of the period, as the reaction time of the people on the stop watches effected the results obtained. we were able to reduce the random error from the stopwatches by using an automatic infrared sensor to time the period of the pendulum but could still further reduce the random errors in the ruler and protractor, possibly by having an apparatus that automatically used a computer to set then angle of release and length of the string for our pendulum.