discussion and conclusion 

	three different variables are measured to determine how the period of a pendulum is affected.  the variables that impact the experiment include length, mass, and angle of release.  by measuring all three of these, we are able to find which factors truly impact the pendulum’s period in seconds.  the independent variable mass is changed first, and the other variables are held constant.  referring to graph 1, mass has little to no effect on the period of the pendulum.  all of the error bars line up identically within the uncertainty criteria.  we conclude that mass does not affect the period of a swing.  the independent variable angle is changed next, and the other variables are held constant.  referring to graph 2, angle of release has little to no effect on the period of the pendulum.  the error bars line up in a uniform pattern within the limits of the uncertainty criteria. we can conclude that angle also does not affect the period of a swing.  the independent variable length is changed last meanwhile the other variables are held constant.  referring to graph 3, length has a significant effect on the period of the pendulum.  as the length of the sting increased, so did the period of the pendulum.  an upward trend is shown on graph 3 showing the increasing period.  the error bars, although not visible, do not seem to overlap. this shows that the measurement of uncertainty does not line up as the period changes.  length is the only variable that affects period out of all three variables.

	graph 4 shows the theoretical equation proving the period of the swing dramatically changes.  length is able to be plugged into the x in the theoretical equation, resulting in a change in the y value.  this proves that as x increases, so does y.  it is a direct correlation of how length affects a period of a pendulum.  the theoretical equation and mathematical model line up in a correct manor.  for each experiment, error frequently occurs as shown in the error bars.  systematic error includes measuring the variables in the experiment.  the equipment used to measure length, mass, and angle are not 100% accurate, but close to it.  due to this, the range of uncertainty is plus or minus that value.  random error also occurring when timing the swing.  the ability for someone to 100% accurately start and stop a watch is low.  the control variables are the constraints of the experiment.  for example, only certain weights are given in the lab.  we could only use the weights provided and nothing in between, thus hindering our ability to measure using a wider range of weights.  in conclusion, length is the variable that affects the period of a pendulum.