conclusion:
 what impacts the period of the pendulum?

 each of the three experiments addressed the research question because they each tested a possible variable that could impact the period of the pendulum. we made the claim that the length of the string will impact the period of the pendulum, but the mass of the pendulum as well as the angle of release will not impact the period of the pendulum. this claim is confirmed by the data and graphs included above in part 3. for the angle of release and mass of the pendulum, because the error bars overlapped almost completely, and the actual data points lie within them, we cannot conclude that there is any difference in the period with a different mass of angle of release. however, when we tested the length and used the photogate, we were able to confidently conclude that as the length of the string increases, so does the period of the pendulum. 
 the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is  where “t” is the period, “l” is the length of the string and “g” is gravity. our experimental model is .  for example, if the length of the pendulum is 0.50 meters, if you use the theoretical model, the period is about 1.419 seconds where if you were to use our experimental model, it would be about 1.506 seconds. this shows that our experimental model that we obtained from the data we collected is very close to the theoretical model. the exponent on the theoretical model is ½ while the exponent in our experimental model is 0.4721, which are very close to each other.

 some possible sources of error present in our experiment are incorrect degree markings on the protractor and tape measure, reaction time of the person timing the period of the pendulum, and an error in communication between the timekeeper and the person releasing the pendulum. the markings on the tape measure and protractor is systematic error, so even though it may sway the data one way or the other, it will be uniform throughout the whole experiment, so it does not impact the data. all the other possible sources are random error. one way that we cut down tremendously on the sources of error involving time is the implementation of the photogate. this is much more accurate than a person and then the error would become systematic because it would have the same impact on each data point. once we had access to the photogate, the error in the experiment was cut down immensely. 

 one constraint that would limit the generalizability of our results is the number of trials. since we only had a limited amount of time, we were only able to conduct a small number of trials. if we were to have more time, we would be able to conduct more trials which would allow our data to be more generalizable.