discussion and conclusion:	

	the goal of our two labs was to discover how changing the mass/force acting on a cart will change its acceleration, and testing how when the cart travels up an incline or decline it will change the acceleration of the cart. when the force/mass of the bobs was increased we discover that the greater the acceleration the cart had. the information discovered here allows us to believe that the greater the force acting on an object the greater the acceleration of the object. the data proves this because it creates a positive or increasing slope when the force increases. this also helps to support our hypothesis of an increasing number of bobs would lead to an increasing acceleration. for the second lab when the incline was increased it allowed for the acceleration to decrease, while when the decline was increased the acceleration of the cart increased. the data proves this on the graph by showing the increasing separation between the two different lines as the heights increased. the greater separation means that the data points are becoming further apart, with incline having slower accelerations, while decline has increasing accelerations. the conclusion that can be made from the angle testing is that the greater the angle will account for the greater change in acceleration, as we increased the height the decline allowed for faster acceleration and incline allowed for slower acceleration. both equations for the labs will be linear equations that measure the slope of force vs acceleration. the error should be very minimal because the computer velocity calculator that was used has a very minimal error measurement. this can also be confirmed because the r squared value for almost all our plots is within .001 of 1 which means that there is not a significant enough error to worry about for this experiment and that our testing remained consistent. the random errors were reduced in our second lab experiment because we performed so many tests that if an error were to be discovered we would be able to correct it, because would have enough data. the theoretical equation for this experiment used for this equation is that $f= m a$ which can be rearranged to $a = \frac{f}{m}$ and this should prove that when force is increased the acceleration increases along with it. this is how you calculate using a single force, which when needed we used the average of multiple forces to calculate the average acceleration of the cart. provided above is a picture of other groups testing using the same variables and control, with just fewer testing runs. this source allows us to support our claims of changes in acceleration based on our two variables because in the other groups testing, they found that acceleration increases when the decline increases and decreases when the incline increases. the constraints of the equation was that we tested indoors without friction, and using a metal cart that was provided to us along with that the amount of mass we could use to change our testing was fixed to the eight bobs.