conclusion:

the purpose of the pendulum lab was to find out what impacts the period of a pendulum. when we first look at mass as the independent variable, we can see that there can be no correlation found between the mass and period size from our data. the line of best fit has a very small flat slope this shows that it’s a weak correlation. the error bars for time are large and all overlap with the other data sets on the graph. this shows that there cannot be assumed any difference in these data points. so, based on our data there is no correlation between mass and period size.

when we test length of string and hold angle and mass constant, we can see a positive relationship on the graph. as we made the length of the string longer the period size got bigger and it took longer for it to finish the period. this is represented by our data table and graph. we can see that the angle looks to have a linear relationship with period length. the error bars for the data points for both measuring the length and the time are small and do overlap a little. based on the graph we still can say that there is a positive strong correlation between length of string and period size.

we found that there was no correlation between small angles and period size but as we increased the angle to thirty and above the period length got longer. the points of the graph are very tight nit until you get to thirty degrees and then there’s a jump in period time and then another jump when you go up to 50 degrees. the error bars for the time of period are large due to the use of the stop watch but as the points get bigger the error bars don’t overlap. we can see for this data that there is a positive correlation as the angle gets bigger than 20 degrees.

the theoretical equation for length $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, t being time, l being length of string and, g being gravity. this equation shows that based on our three tested variables length of string is the only one that influences it. our lab data supports this finding with the support of the exception that as the angle grows larger that is influences it as well. 

 there were several errors that contributed to our error bars. first, there was a random error from timing the periods with stop watches. this human error could have caused late starts or fast finishes. this was solved by using the photogate system that allowed the computer to do it for us. we also could have improved our data by averaging all the times each trial. there was a systematic error in the length of the string from not measuring the center of mass. we only measured to the end of the string. this was easily solved by measuring the end of the string to the center of mass. 

	there were a few constraints in this experiment. we had to use a certain string and were limited to certain heights because the string was limited. we were constrained by the angle. if we went to wide it would skip and create an error. because of these constraints everyone had very similar data and made a generalized data set.