discussion and conclusion


the purpose of the lab is to determine the mathematical relationships for systems acting in accordance with newton's second law. as in lab 5 where the effect of increasing weight  on a string used to pull a sled on a frictionless track. and in lab 6 where the same weight was change but now the effect was seen when the track was put at an incline of decline. 

lab five showed mathematical relationships in line with newton's second law $f=m a$. in experiment 1 where the mass of hanging weight was the independent variable and the car’s acceleration was measured, this experiment resulted in a positive linear relationship as shown in in the first table. this relationship would work because as the mass in $f=m a$ increases so the force of  f would increase as well. the force value increasing would also cause the acceleration of a to also increase. in the second experiment  the mass of car and its relationship to the car’s acceleration resulted in a negative power function, shown in table 2. the relationship in experiment 1 should be opposite of experiment 2 because decreasing the m value in the $f=m a$ equation would lead to a decrease the overall acceleration of the system. a new condition was added in lab 6, the incline of the track. in the experiment, the data was collected with the new variable and data tables  3 and 4 were constructed. these graphs showed a linear negative relationship between the incline of the track and the acceleration of the car. the relationship is proven by newton's second law because increasing the incline raises the overall force required to get the car up the track and therefore would make the acceleration go down.

these two groups findings show a relationship in the change in the acceleration given a change in one of the independent variables of there given experiment.  the first groups changed the angle of the track and had similar results. the acceleration changed when the track was raised to a positive incline and the car would accelerate slower when the track was put at a negative incline the sled accelerated faster. the second group tested the effect that magnets would have on the acceleration they showed that with more magnets came a faster acceleration. this supports the mathematical model showing that a decrease in the force applied requires less acceleration.

the random errors that could have occured in the experiments could be that the sensors are not calibrated properly and checking to see if they are would eliminate some error in the experiment. some systematic error could be that the frictionless track actually has some friction as well as air resistance as it moves through the air causing change in the data.
the constraints that could cause an impact to the generalization of this lab are the frictionless track not being totally frictionless and the sensors not being very precise. this constraints could be resolved by the use of more precise lab equipment.

the two mathematical models produced are consistent with newton's second law, $f=m a$, this is because in the first equation derived in lab 5 in trials one and two, when the mass of the bobs on the string was increased the overall force would have to increase and in turn the acceleration would get larger. in lab six the same relationship is present when there is less force required to move the sled say if the track was on a decline and gravity was assisting the sled so the acceleration would increase, similarly if the sled is on an incline it must fight gravity and therefore requires more force to accelerate. these two labs showed the application of newton's second law and how different independent variables interact with it.