conclusion:

the purpose of this lab was to see the relation that mass and forces have on acceleration and to find mathematical models that relate these factors together. in lab 06 the purpose was to develop an understanding for the variables in the experiments and the numerical values to do with the models.
in the first experiment we found that if we increased the mass on the cart that the acceleration decreased at an exponential rate which shows in our mathematical model, $a=\frac{3.3885}{m^{0.306}}$ as you can see there is a negative exponent on the mass in the equation so as the mass increases the acceleration decreases exponentially. this shows in our graph as there is a negative exponent slope. in the second experiment we found that if we increased the force on the cart that the acceleration would increase also in a linear fashion. our mathematical model, $a=2.8612 f + 0.0044$, as you can see if we increased the force the acceleration of the system would also increase in a linear pattern. this shows in our graph as there is a positive linear correlation. in the third experiment we found that if we increase the friction within the system the acceleration would decrease. this makes sense with our mathematical model because friction is a negative force so in our last equation the acceleration would in turn also decrease.
these are the finding of two other groups in our class (group 2 and group 5). group 2 found very similar data to us and they had the same relationship between force of friction and acceleration as us. this helps confirm the data that we recorded from our experiment. group 5’s data shows that there is a negative correlation between tilt and acceleration. this makes sense cause the tilt contributes a negative force to the system so it will negatively affect acceleration.
there were certain errors that might have been present. one of these might have been interference from letting go of the car because one instance we accidently brushed the cart against one of our teammates elbows and we released the cart so this might have happened on a smaller scale that we did not catch. another error that may have occurred was when we were recording slopes, we might not have selected the correct areas. we combated this by leaving a buffer region between the desired zone and the unwanted zone that would have influenced our data.
some constraints in our experiment were that we were limited by time and if we had more time, we could have recorded more data points to help our data. also, we only had a certain amount of weight we could use so we were able to get a wide range of variables for our testing, this goes also for the magnets we used to test friction.
our two mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law of  . this is because we found a negative exponent relationship between mass and acceleration which is shown in the equation above, if you increased m then a would inversely decrease. the other factor we tested, force also fits into this equation. if we increased force then acceleration would also increase which is in line with newton’s second law equation because if you increase f then a would also increase.