discussion and conclusion

research question: what factors affect the period of a pendulum?


above is the data from three experiments that evaluate mass, release angle, and string length, which are the different possible factors that can affect the period of a pendulum. gravitational force is excluded because it not easily testable. by testing these three factors we will be able to visualize how each one affects the period of the pendulum. 
after collecting the data from the first experiment, we were able to view the effect that mass, release angle, and string length has on the period of the pendulum. the period average vs. mass graph of the collected data reveals no relationship between the mass and the period. the overlap of the error bars prevents us from concluding a change in the period, so it is assumed that the period did not change. this means the mass does not affect the period when the string length and the release angle are held constant. the period average vs. angle graph also reveals no relationship between the independent variable (release angle) and the dependent variable (period). the trendline may make it seem like there is a positive linear relationship, but we cannot conclude that the value for the period changes due to the overlap of error bars when applying equivalency criterion, especially at smaller release angles. the release angle does not affect the period of the pendulum when the string length and mass are constant. the period length vs. string length graph exhibits a positive relationship between the string length and the period since the error bars do not overlap, even when applying the equivalency criterion. this is true when the mass and the release angle are constant.
the second experiment allowed us to find the standard deviation of the measurements using the pendulum simulation. knowing the standard deviation of the measurements helps us determine the range of uncertainty in measuring the period of the pendulum. we then applied the standard deviation/range of uncertainty using error bars to the graphs we created in the first experiment. doing this allowed us to determine and confirm the relationship that each of the three factors (mass, release angle, and string length) has with the period of the pendulum. 
after examining the data from the first two experiments, we were able to eliminate the mass and the release angle as possible factors that affect the period of the pendulum. with this being said, we focused on how the string length affects the period for the third experiment. completing more trials while changing the string length in smaller increments displayed how the string length truly affects the period. the period length vs. string length graph reveals that the period has a power relationship with the string length, which is true when the mass and the release angle are constant. 
theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ (in meters) or $t=0.201 l^{0.5}$ (converted from meters to centimeters)
mathematical data from trendline for period avg. vs. string length graph from experiment 3 is 

	$t=0.2681 l^{0.4461}$
our mathematical model and data follow the theoretical model relatively well. the trendline from our period average vs. string length graph displays a similar power relationship compared to the graph of the theoretical mathematical model. also, both the coefficient and exponent values from our mathematical model are very close to the coefficient and exponent values from the theoretical model. the theoretical model does not include mass nor release angle as a variable or factor in determining the period of the pendulum. similarly, our model does not include the mass nor the release angle as variables. 
several errors that were present during the first experiments were not reading the protractor closely enough when measuring the angle, deviation in the pendulum swing (not swinging the pendulum exactly straight), not measuring the string length precisely enough, not ending the swing at its exact peak, and error in stopwatch timing. the second experiment was performed using a simulation, so errors in angle measurement were eliminated. however, errors in timing were still present. to eliminate almost all timing error, use a photogate, which is what we used to time the period length in experiment 3. when you are not using a computer simulation, there is always going to be human error in measuring the angle and the string length. but, you can minimize this by being as careful and exact as possible. in terms of error/deviation in the pendulum swing, some sort of device could be made that releases the mass on the end of the string in the same exact direction every time, which would reduce this amount of error. 
one constraint the restricts the generalizability of the results is the materials used for the experiments. we were provided with one type of mass and a limited amount of string and mass. expanding the experiment outside of the materials we used could affect the results. also, our pendulum could only be so large. these experiments were conducted on a relatively small scale, so translating the procedures to a large-scale experiment could alter the collected data and the results. 
