conclusion:
 the purpose of this lab was to show the relationship between mass of a cart and the hanging aspect and the acceleration of the cart in both a real testing system as well as a mathematical model as we did in lab 5 and 6. 

the experiments in lab 5 and 6 led to our mathematical models through collection and organization of data as well as calculations. once we compiled the data, we were able to use formulas given by the slopes, and refer to formulas that we knew from class, in order to make our mathematical models that represented the testing. each variable had its own impact on the mathematical model as well. for instance, with the first graph that we created in lab 5 involving the hanging mass, the equation is linear, and the slope represents the change in acceleration given the change in mass. it is a positive slope because as the mass of the hanging bob increased, so did the acceleration. the second graphs equation is not linear, but instead is a power function with a negative slope. this is due to the negative correlation between increase in cart mass and the decrease in acceleration. the same is true for all three of the given trendlines in our third graph as well. we used the equations from all of these graphs to determine our mathematical models, and to better represent the physical values that we observed and recorded. 




although we did not record the team numbers of the groups that we took pictures of, we were still able to use their mathematical models to compare to our own and achieve a better understanding of the overall relationship. they referred to several of the same points as we did and found the same relationships that we did. however, neither of them studied the exact same variables that we did, and the different testing that they did helped us to see how friction and even the incline of the track, had an impact on the acceleration. overall, the observing of other groups outcomes and findings, allowed us to see that the increased incline causes an increase in acceleration, and allowed us to confirm that an increase in friction causes a decrease in acceleration.

 some errors that could have been present would be the random errors involving the release length and timing. if the person released it a inch before or after the desired release point, our data would be slightly altered. also, if the data was not properly recorded, this also could have caused error in our findings and had some of the values not be as exact as they could have been. in the future, we could use a mechanical release for the cart, and have it coordinated with the timing of beginning to record the acceleration data. we could also have a device that made sure that the bounce back of the cart did not interfere with the data at the end of the movement of the cart. 

 the only constraint of the project that could have limited our generalizability of the results was the limited time and number of tests that we were able to complete. if we were able to complete hundreds of tests with varying weights and the lowest possible friction, we would be able to truly test our data and find the more generalized results possible. i still feel however, that our testing was sufficient in determining the relationship.

 the two mathematical models are consistent with newton’s second law, because it showed that the force had to stay the same, and if the mass increased, the acceleration would have to decrease in order to keep that force the same. this is was represented in our data and showed the same results as one would expect when referring to newton’s second law. this was shown as well by the decrease in mass causing a increase in acceleration, once again to keep the force at the same overall net value.