discussion and conclusion:

the research question in this lab was what impacts the period of the pendulum for small swings. in the first experiment we found that the length of the string impacted the period of the pendulum the most. this is valid due to the fact that the graphs for experiment 1 shown previous in this report proved that the slope of the graph for the string length was bigger than the pendulum weight graph and the angle of release graph. it is also shown by the pendulum weight graph and the angle of release graph not having much of a slope. in the second experiment we analyzed how certain uncertainties could have skewed our data and thought of ways to change this to where our data would not be skewed due to uncertainties. one thing we came up with during experiment 2 was to have a device take frame by frame pictures that also displayed time. then we did experiment 3 which was almost like what we discussed for experiment 2. in experiment 3 we had a device called photogate that did something similar to what we came up with. photogate took the time of each swing of a pendulum so that there would be no uncertainties and give us much better data points. the theoretical mathematical model that was found is   . we found this using the line of best fit of figure 4 which was the string length versus the period of the pendulum. we did not use the lines created from the graphs that did not affect the period due to the fact that the string length was a much better one to pick from. after completing this assignment, we found there to be many possible errors. one of these errors consisted of random error with the stopwatch. when the pendulum started to be dropped the two people with the stopwatch may not have started it exactly when they should have and when they should have stopped the stopwatch, they may not have stopped it at the correct time. therefore, the time of the pendulum could’ve been too early or too late depending on the people with the stopwatch. another error could’ve been a systematic error within the stopwatch due to the small amount of time it takes to start and stop the stopwatch when the timers are supposed to. this would lead to an increase in time rather than the right time due to the fact that the stop/start button is very stiff. another random error could have been the angle from which the pendulum was released due to where the releaser was standing and the hand angle, the angle from which it was released may not have been exact. we concluded that we would want to use frame by frame pictures with respect to time to reduce any of these errors or we would want to use stopwatches with less stiff start/stop buttons. one last thing we would have done is develop some sort of rig that would hold the pendulum at the exact same angle before releasing it. a constraint that would have to be put on this experiment would be doing it on earth and not another planet because the force of gravity would be different on earth versus another planet.