discussion and conclusion:

the research question that pertains to this lab is the following; what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings? from figure 1 we can see that the weight on the pendulum has no effect on the period of oscillation from the pendulum. the period of the pendulum is affected by the length of the string and the angle of release as we saw in figure 2. the bigger the angle of release the longer it takes for the pendulum to swing back and forth. some of the claims and predictions we made were not correct while some were. the mathematical model was determined by first looking at which independent variables impacted the period of pendulum. our data fits with the theoretical data because our r2 value was very close to 1. this indicates that 100% of the variability in period of pendulum is a result of the change in length of string. this suggests that our data is best represented shows a relationship between the length of string and period of pendulum. the experimental mathematical model indicates that are points fit the trendline perfectly meaning our data is accurate. some errors we encountered dealt with the timing and the angle the pendulum was released at. to solve our timing problem, we were able to use a sensor that can record the time for us. but, for the angle of release we had to redo some trials as we had trouble releasing at the exact angle throughout the experiment. in order to fix this problem, we would require some sort of machine that can release the pendulum at the exact angle with no force added to the pendulum. there are a bunch of theoretical factors that could have drastically affected our data, but they didn’t. i was referring to the air conditions or some out worldly circumstance where the earth’s gravity was not 9.8 m/s. from this experiment we can see that the mass on the pendulum does not affect the period of oscillation, but the length of the string and the angle of release do have an effect on the oscillation of the pendulum.