conclusion:

	     the purpose of this lab was to see how different forces affected the acceleration of a glider on a frictionless surface. along with this, we wanted to be able to develop mathematical models to represent this data, and see how outside factors, like lab setting, contributed. from running these experiments, we were able to develop some mathematical models for a relationship between forces applied to a glider on a frictionless surface, and acceleration. these models are provided in graphs 1 and 2, and each contain 2 variables, c1 and c2. as a group we were able to determine that the variable c1 represents that acceleration of the model, while the other variable represents and initial velocity. as we worked on this experiment, there were also other groups working alongside us, in order to get a better understanding of how all this worked, we collaborated with these groups and compared results. as you can see in image 1(below), group 2 worked on changing the same lab setting as our group, the incline/decline of the system. they were able to replicate the results we got, which were that as the slope of the system changed, the acceleration, or first variable in the model, remained unchanged. however, the initial velocity, or the second variable, was greater as a decline was implemented and lower as it sat on an incline. logically, this makes sense as the second variable represents an initial velocity, which on a declined frictionless surface, it would move without any force applied, and in the opposite direction if on an incline. on the other hand, group 6 tested the system, but instead added magnets to their glider. from their results in image 2, we can tell that as you add more magnets, both variables in the equation decrease. possible errors from this experiment would be systematic errors with the collaboration of the machines. in this experiment we had equipment designed to generate a frictionless surface, this constraint limits the generalizability of the experiment because in the real world a frictionless surface is almost impossible to achieve and very rare. our results are consistent with newton’s second law because as we applied a greater force, while keeping mass constant, the acceleration of the system increased. and when we kept force constant and increased the mass, acceleration decreased. the equation does not involve slope at all, so newton’s second law also explains why we saw no change in the first variable of the equation when we changed the setting of the lab.

	

	