conclusion:

what impacts the period of a pendulum?

the three experiments to test what affected the period of the pendulum addressed the research question by testing for the variables that could be tested and seeing what the results were on the period of the pendulum. the claims made were is  mass has no effect on the period of the pendulum so long as the angle from the center is small, the angle from center of the bob has no effect on the period on the pendulum given that the angles tested are smaller angles (less than 30 degrees), and finally the length of the string does affect the period of the pendulum. it can be said that the mass has no effect on the period of the pendulum because looking at figure 2 and data table two can see that the line formed on the graph nearly has a slope of zero showing little to no correlation between the mass and period.  the same goes for the angle from the center with which the bob is released from. in figure 3 and data table 4 the graph is nearly flat with a slight positive correlation. this correlation can be attributed to the angles being larger and thus affecting it with the slight positive correlation. the correlation between the length of the string and the is strong as seen in figure 7 and 4. the error bars may overlap from point to point but between three or more they do not, and it can be concluded that there is a change in the period of the pendulum. in addition, the r squared value of the graphs is nearly one which indicates a strong positive correlation.

the theoretical model for the period of a pendulum is 

the data collected shown in figure 7 is very similar to the theoretical model. the power is nearly to one half and the constant which theoretically should approximately be .2006 (this is found from converting gravity from m/s^2 to cm/s^2 and taking the square root of it and it then taking 2 pi and dividing by the converted gravity) is .2129. in addition, since the angle is kept below 30 degrees it can be considered controlled and having no effect on it. also, as previously stated, mass has no effect on the period of the pendulum. 

random error included the people timing using a stop watch (in figures 1-6) which can and was made more accurate by using photogates (in figure 7). it also included the error in measurement when using something as inaccurate as a protractor. this can either be fixed by using a more accurate tool to measure the angle or by increasing the number of trials. it also includes the way someone drops the bob. the way that this was handled was by keeping the person dropping it constant and can be minimized even more by an increase in trials.

systematic error includes air resistance and considering the string massless. the air resistance would cause over time for the pendulum to eventually stop. this means that if the period was found by taking multiple swings for one trial and averaging the period it would change the period over time. to minimize the effects of it one would have to limit the number of swings so to still get enough swings to get a more accurate answer but not so many as to make air resistance no longer negligible. additionally, the only way to take into account the mass of the string is to mass the specific length each time. however, since it is known that mass has no effect on the period of a pendulum this can be considered negligible. 

some constraints of the experiment limiting generalization of the results include the angle needing to be below 30 degrees when testing it, the test is not free of air resistance, and finally not extremely accurate measuring devices.