conclusion:

	the purpose of this lab was to develop mathematical models which describe the behavior of a real system (lab 05) as well as to develop an understanding for each variable and numerical value included in the model (lab 06).

	in lab 05, we tested we stuck a total of 8 bobs on the system, each measured individually along with the mass of the system listed in figure 1s. the cart(system) was placed 1.4 meters in front the start of the track each time for consistency and the velocity/time graph was measured by a preset data studio program. the velocity line was relatively straight; therefore, we took the overall slope of the graph to get the acceleration. a bob or two was added to the string for every 3 tests of weight. ex is  with one bob on the string we tested the velocity of that 3 times and then added one more bob. after we had all of our bobs at the end of the string and all our data collected, we inputted the data into excel and graphed it. the graph was then set to a linear fit to get the overall mathematical model of the tests. based on its mathematical model figure 1s, the equation is a linear equation suggesting that the mass on the string has a positive relationship with the acceleration of the system as you add more weight at the end of the string. 

	on the other hand, the 2nd experiment of lab 05, everything was kept the same, however, the difference was that we changed the mass of the system and kept the mass at the end of the string constant. ex is  the mass of the system changes an average of about 5 grams after every trial. the data was graphed again in excel and was power fitted. the mathematical model represented in figure 2s suggested that the relationship between the mass of the system is a negative one. meaning that as the mass of the system decreases then the acceleration of the system will also decrease. 

	in lab 05 in the mathematical models we noticed that there was some unaccounted force that we were unaware of so for lab 06 we set out to find what could possibly be the extra force. in this lab the did the same experiment as experiment 1 in lab 05 mentioned above three times, however, with each time with increased the height different each time. twice at the beginning of the track (positive height) and once at the end of the track (negative height). for each test, the data was graphed, and we found their mathematical models focusing on the y-intercepts. while the signs of the intercept were off, we can still come to a conclusion that those models suggest that the outside forces that affected our data in lab 05 could’ve been due any change in difference of the height with the table and the track itself. 



	of the two other groups we referenced in the lab, both had also concluded that the outside factor tested, whether it was the frictional force of the system of figure 8s, or the angle of the track of figure 7s, directly affects the overall acceleration of the system. both groups saw a significant difference in the values of the y-intercept, which aligns with the conclusion that the value is the summation of the outsides forces on the system. this is shown in figure 7s with the two positive angles having y-intercept values of 0.0427 and 0.1648, while the negative angle, which should have a negative y-intercept value since the incline is facing away from the direction of motion, has a value of -0.0861. figure 8s also supports the conclusion of the y-intercept since when the amount of friction was decreased, in their experiment “top” being the most amount of friction, and “bottom” being the least amount of friction, the values of the y-intercept consistently decrease as the frictional force opposing the motion of the system is decreasing. both figure 7s and 8s are from teams that experienced a greater, more accurate change in the y-intercept values than our observed values, which did not support the conclusion about the physical value of c2. our values of c1 also do reflect the inverse of the mass of the system, since our calculated value of the inverse of the mass of the system is 2.95 kg^-1, and the slopes of the three graphs are 2.8747, 2.8911, and 2.8995, all three near the true value. our graphs are also accurate due to the lowest r^2 value being 0.9988, and the others being 0.9999, proving accurate trendlines.

	there could’ve been several factors that could’ve affect the measurements of newton’s 2nd law in both experiments. one factor to consider is the mass of both the string and pulley, where both objects require energy to move. these objects would decrease the value of the acceleration due to this energy loss given another experiment, these values could be reduced to near zero if the string was lighter and the pulley operation was greased with lubracation in order to reduce friction. this would result in a more accurate gathering of the data and a more accurate mathematical model. other possible factors affecting the overall acceleration of the system include air resistance and the mass of the pulley itself. the air resistance of the system is always acting against the motion of the system, which will always slow down the true acceleration of the system. this can be tested using a partial vacuum chamber, where the concentration of air can be controlled throughout each trial of the experiment. the effect of air resistance can be negated if the experiment were to be conducted in a sealed vacuum chamber, of which no air can push against the cart. the other factor that may contribute to slowing down the acceleration of the system is the mass of the pulley itself, where it absorbs a certain amount of energy in order to rotate an object with mass, taking energy out of the cart system and slowing the velocity, affecting the acceleration. this factor could be tested using several different pulleys with known masses, while keeping all other variables constant. after such an experiment, the effect of the pulley towards the acceleration of the system would be known and can be negated through calculations.

	there were a few notable constraints that were against us this experiment. one obvious one is time. while we were give an adequate amount of time to gather the required data, giving us more time would’ve allowed us to be able to do more tests with possibly more bobs, or more heights. the more tests we have, the better our data will turn out. another constraint is in terms of material. the materials we had were sufficient enough to do this experiment however, lubrication as well as a string that would cause less friction could’ve helped with the accuracy of our data a little bit. using bobs as a weight isn’t always more reliable especially since their positions could’ve possibly affected the impacted the acceleration in the height test. for example, if we had more heights in the front with a positive height. since the cart would’ve been more loaded in the front it’s acceleration could be affect in a small manner. 

	the lab 05, exp 1 mathematical model verified newton’s second law because it showed that force, mass, and acceleration both are correlated with each other. however, since the mathematical model showed a force that seemingly shouldn’t have been there, we had to do lab 06 experiment to single out this extra force as an just an external force not related to the lab 05 experiment. while  lab 05 set the basis for newton’s second law, lab 06 double checked it by proving that an external force not related to the system was affecting its acceleration.