conclusion:

the research question that we were experimenting with was ‘what impacts the period of a pendulum?’ in lab 1 we were looking at the length of the string, the mass of the pendulum, and the angle of the drop were the three independent variables and the dependent variable was the period of the pendulum. then in lab 1 we just collected data (the time it took to complete a period of the pendulum) and how each independent variable would possibly increase the time it took to complete the period of the pendulum. in lab 2 we continued to investigate the length of the string and the angle the pendulum was dropped. it was decided to not continue to look at the mass of the pendulum because we saw that there was no correlation between the mass of the pendulum and the period of the pendulum. in lab 2 we were also able to go over and identify any errors that we thought that may have occurred while we were collecting data in lab 1. some errors that occurred were taking incorrect times for each trail for the different independent variables and the second error was letting the pendulum go at the wrong angle. in lab 3, we created a mathematical model for the two independent variables that positively impacted the period of the pendulum. we used the photo gate to help get rid of the incorrect time error because we could be more accurate with our data collection. in figures 1 and 2, we can see that the independent and the dependent variables both have a positively sloped linear correlation. the r-squared value for the length of the string versus the time taken to complete the period of the pendulum was 0.9919 and this means that the data was very close the trend line. the r-squared value for figure 2 was 0.9627 which means that the data is close to the line. this also tells us that there is a positive linear correlation between the length of the string versus the period of the pendulum and the angle of the drop versus the period of the pendulum. in figure 3 we see that the r-squared value is 0.01131 this is just stating that there is no statistical correlation between the trend line and the data. this was how we could take the mass out of the experiment because we found that there was no correlation between the mass and the period of the pendulum.