discussion:

	the purpose of this lab was to develop equations to show the relationships of acceleration and mass in varying conditions. by experimenting with the physics bench and reducing friction we were able to see how differing masses changed the result of acceleration in a system. as you can see in graphs 1 and 2 we see that by changing where the mass is changed the acceleration is affected in different ways. this shows us that while the relationship vertically seems to be linear, the relationship in a horizontal path changes quite differently as mass increases, and we see this in graph 1 and graph 2 respectively. 

	here is a photo of the other groups work from lab 5. as detailed here you can see that all the groups found a linear relationship when you changed the vertical mass in model 1, but a power relationship was found as you increased the horizontal mass as we can see from model 2.

	as we can see in this data from lab six many thought that the change in tilt would cause a change in friction and thus a change in acceleration as we can see from group 3’s whiteboard. however, this was not found to be the case and the acceleration of the system behaved much more like the vertical mass experiment from lab 5. while the acceleration did change, it changed linearly, and scaled very well with the tilt as you can see in graph 7. this graph reminded me of graph 1 for its general linear characteristics. i would be interested to see what would happen when tilt increased over 45 degrees.

	we can also see from group 4 that their relationship was linear, and we can see from group 5 as well. all the groups seemed to arrive at the conclusion that as tilt changed the acceleration did change, but at a linear rate, rather than that of a power function. 

	as far as error goes, some factors may include a more precise measurement of the angle calibration, and an improved number of trials to reduce random error. however, since we see very high r squared values, this retrial seems to be more trouble than it’s worth, and though retesting is a wonderful and necessary aspect of scientific research. retesting just to slightly increase one’s accuracy seems counterproductive. as for constraints we do have to careful about generalizing our results. because these are experiments designed to isolate variables it may be difficult to apply to real world situations where multiple variables impact the outcome of the situation. especially in this labs case, where friction was intentionally reduced to almost the point of absence, as we know friction will change the outcome in a scenario out in the field. as we saw from our force equations based on the sum of forces we can see that the weight does result in an increase in acceleration when the weight is increased in the vertical direction and decreased as it is applied in the horizontal direction.