discussion and conclusion

in the lab we conducted, the question asked was what impacts the period of a pendulum. the variables we brainstormed initially were mass of an object attached to the end of the pendulum, the length of string, and the release angle. 

before we finished the first lab, we concluded that each iv would affect the dv, the period of the pendulum. however, after we gathered data, we noticed that only the string length and the release angle influence the period according to our original data, or refer to figures 1, 2 and 3. when we tested the mass vs. period, we kept string length and the angle the same, and for the string length vs. period we kept the mass and angle release the same. finally, when we tested for the angle release influence, we kept the mass and the length of the string the same. these addressed the question originally presented because it shows which of the ivs had an influence on the period. as stated, before we found that the only iv that didn’t have an affect was the mass originally. later in our labs we found that the angle release actually does not affect the period. if you look at figure 4, there is an uncertainty for the angle release vs. time graph because the graph is not totally linear when we use a photogate instead of a stopwatch.

the theoretical math model for the period of the pendulum is $t =2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$ . in this situation l is the string length, and the g is the force of gravity. the force of gravity is 9.8 m/s^2. when we plug in numbers to solve for t, the period, you get a value close to 0.5. this proves that the length is the only factor that influences the period of a pendulum, not the mass or angle release.

in our first lab we conducted, we used a stopwatch. while this method is still quite accurate, it allows room for random error. in addition, we used measuring tape throughout all three labs and a protractor to measure the length of the string and the release angle respectively. because of this, there is room for error because humans cannot measure everything to an exact measurement. all these could be fixed by using some sort of technological advancement that is more precise and accurate than the human’s eye or judgement. while we did this for the time by using a photogate on the third lab, we never used any other advancement to help eliminate these errors.

the main constraints for this lab were the resources provided. although we could make the correct conclusions for this lab our data would be exponentially more accurate to the true values because machines are better than human judgement. in addition, time is always a constraint. if we had more time during this lab, we could have gathered more data. nevertheless, the constraints were quite minor referring to our data and we could still make the necessary conclusions.