discussion and conclusion

a. the research question for the lab is: what impacts the period of a pendulum?

b. all three of the experiments are related to the research question because we set up and tested an experiment by following the experimental design. we then took our data and calculated the error in the data by determining standard deviation and the error bars on the figures shown above. we then created mathematical models by taking the data to add the error bars, curve fit the points, and the r value and equation of the line. we claimed that length was the only factor that caused the period of a pendulum to change. the tables and figures above prove our conclusion because the length graph is the only graph that significantly increases.

c. the theoretical mathematical model for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$. our data fits this model because we determined that string length is the only factor to affect the period of a pendulum. our data proves our conclusion because string length is the only factor that consistently increased throughout our testing. figure 1 and figure 2 show that there was not that large of an increase of period for mass and drop angle. figure 3 shows that there was a great increase in string length with large error bars. this shows that length does indeed impact the period of a pendulum most significantly. that is why mass and drop angle are taken into account in the theoretical equation shown above.

d. the errors that we experienced were systematic because they were all human error. the human errors that we experienced were the reaction time on the stopwatch, the measurement of the drop angle, and the measurement of the length of the string. all of these errors could be reduced by using different types of stopwatches, length measuring instruments, and angle measurement instruments. these could also be reduced next time by comparing to the theoretical equation’s solutions to determine how different or similar they are.

e. the constraints in this experiment that may limit the generalizability of our results are measuring tools that were provided because they are not most precise measuring devices. another constraint is the limit of trials we could do within the time given in the lab. we could only take a few data points for each variable because we still had to analyze the data that we collected.