discussion and conclusion

	this experiment was conducted in order to discover what factors impact the period of a pendulum under small angles. only three factors were considered and acted upon is  mass(kg), length(m) and angle of release. the extent of the experiment was done over 4 total experiments and calculations. the initial three were surface level and meant to bring light to which factor had a strong correlation to the pendulum’s period and the fourth experiment was to be used to fully answer and analyze the factor for which had the greatest correlation. experiment 1 was a test of mass (kg) and its affect on period(s). as mass decreased the period of the pendulum did not change in relation to the amount or direction of change in mass. this can be seen in table 2. and its corresponding graph, figure 1. neither of which show any pattern or correlation. 

	experiment 2 was tested in order to find what effect the angle of release had on the pendulum’s period. as we increased the angle of released, the period was unchanged. keeping all controlled variables, changing the angle of release showed very little if any correlation to the pendulum’s period. this is evident in figure 2. as well as table 4.  most showing is the error bars present in figure 2. overlapping one another.

	experiment 3 was tested in order to find what effect the length of the pendulum (m) has on the period of a pendulum. as the length of the pendulum increased, the period of the pendulum also increased while all other factors remained constant we are confident that length had a strong correlation on the pendulum’s period. this is evident by figure 3. and table 6. as a clear pattern emerges and the trendline used fit with a strong r-squared value at 0.9982.  with no overlapping error bars and a strong r-squared value we decided to select length as our strongly correlated factor respecting the impact it had on the pendulum’s period.

	errors in conducting the first three experiment were small and is evident in our small standard deviation of ± 0.054927. creating very small error bars that help discriminate against poorly correlating data and a strong correlation.

	in order to ensure our data was accurate and to delve further into analyzing how strong the correlation really was between length (m) and period (s) experiment three was repeated with a photogate. a photogate would eliminate any problems with human error while using the stopwatch from a calculated ± 0.054927 to a precise ± 0.001 of a second. from this experiment we are given figure 4. and table 9. which shows an even stronger correlation than previously found with an r-squared value of 0.9993. these values and the graph also gives an accurate trendline and possible equation with relation to length (m).  using the theoretical model for calculating the period of a pendulum is  

$t=2 \pi \sqrt{\frac{l}{g}}$

where t is period and l is length and g is gravity.  comparing this to our found mathematical model in figure 4. which sa$y=1.42913597821417$ can be rearranged to better match the theoretical model a$t=2.0058 l^{0.5137}$. the value l^0.5137 nearly matches the square root of l in the theoretical model. 

	limitations of our experiment only allow us to account for the length in our equation, as gravity was not considered nor recorded. however, in order to support our model, consider the point (1,2) from figure 4. as we will plug both values into each equation(model). our found model shows a t of 2.0058 while the theoretical shows a $t=2.00709$ two very similar values. we can confidently say that our model supports the theoretical for a pendulum swing of small angles (less than 20 degrees) with very accurate data from table 9. and figure 4.

	possible constraints of the experiment include time given during the labs, the amount of trials was limited due to a small window to collect data each experiment as well as the length of the string being only so long and the inability to account for more variables such as gravity.