discussion and conclusion

this experiment was attempting to answer the question of what impacts the period of a pendulum? 

for the first portion of the experiment, the relationship between the angle of release and the number of periods was set out to be determined. in order to accomplish this, we had to manipulate the angle that the pendulum was being released at while keeping the rest of the variables controlled. figure 1 and table 1 show the data that was collected during this portion of the experiment. as table 1 suggests, the number of periods remained fairly constant even when changing the angle of release. figure 1 also shows that there is a linear relationship between the number of periods and the angle of release. also, the vertical error bars placed on the graph were not able to be seen. this means that the data points lie very close to the true value. in conclusion, the angle of release had virtually no impact on the number of periods. the second portion set out to investigate whether or not the mass of the pendulum affected the number of periods. with this portion, the angle of release and the string length were kept constant so the only manipulated variable would be the mass of the pendulum. figure 2 and table 2 contain all of the data for this portion of the experiment. as table 2 shows, as the mass of the pendulum would decrease, the number of periods would stay roughly the same. this is consistent with figure 2 as there is also a linear relationship that is being shown. the vertical error bars on the graph were also too small to be seen. this means that the data collected falls very close to the true value. as did the angle of release, the graph indicates that the mass of the pendulum has no impact on the number of periods. the last portion of the experiment was conducted in order to determine if the string length affected the number of periods of the pendulum. for this, the angle of release and the mass of the pendulum had to remain constant in order to fully see the effects of the string length on the number of periods. figure 3 and table 3 express the data collected. table 3 shows a different relationship compared to the other two variables. as the length of the string decreases, the number of periods increase. this relationship was not seen when conducting experiments for the other two variables. figure 3 also shows to be different. there is a negative curve in the graph which shows a power relationship between the string length and the number of periods. the error bars were larger and show that there is some variability amongst the data points collected. with this graph, the conclusion was that the string length impacts the number of periods of a pendulum.

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum states that $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, in which the answer would come out to be $y=1.99 x^{0.5}$.  figure 3 and table 3 fit this model. since the string length is the only variable that affects the number of periods, it contains the figure and table to support this. the equation based off of figure 4, which is the most accurate due to the use of the photogate, is $y=2.0626 x^{0.412}$. this experimental mathematical model is not equal to the theoretical model, however, the relationship between the variables is the same. the curve on figure 4 models what the graph of the theoretical mathematical equation would look like. the other variables that were experimented with, the angle of release and mass of pendulum, did not fit into the theoretical mathematical model. with the equation $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$, there is no place to input the angle of release or the mass of the pendulum. this equation is consistent for the data collected for these two variables, showing that the angle of release and the mass of the pendulum does not affect the number of periods.

one random error that occurred during the beginning of the experiment was utilizing a stopwatch operated by human. it is highly improbable that the stopwatch was stopped at the same second every single trial. in order to reduce this error, a photogate was obtained. this device had an uncertainty value of .001. with this very accurate device, the results were more clear and certain. this allowed figure 4 to be constructed and with that, being able to obtain an experimental mathematical model that is similar to the theoretical mathematical model. for future experiments where one is obtaining information regarding the number of periods of a pendulum, the photogate should be used in all trials in order to minimize error. one systemic error that occurred was that the photogate would not zero out. this only occurred for the trial comparing the angle of release and the number of periods. this was avoided in later portions of the experiment, however, it may have influenced the variability in the number of periods when changing the angle.

one constraint that may have affected the data would be that the string length was only able to reach a length of 250cm. with this length, longer lengths were unattainable due to the pendulum striking against the floor. if this experiment were set up in a different environment, the string length could have been longer and have a greater variability in string length. another constraint that may have affected the results would be height of the photogate. the photogate was unable to hit many lengths in the middle, so many books had to be used in order to set the photogate on, so that the pendulum would swing through the photogate. the string lengths in the middle may have been compromised due to the height of the photogate.