discussion and conclusion

the purpose of lab 5 was to design and test an experiment to develop mathematical models that would describe the behavior of the real system that we tested, which we would then build on in lab 6 by designing an experiment to identify the variables and numerical values created by the mathematical models from lab 5.

the first experiment, (table 1) we obtained the mathematical model by finding the slope value, the acceleration, for each of our total weights, (table 2) and plotted them against each other to achieve the mathematical model (figure 1) of .  our second experiment, (table 3) did not go as it should have as we should have achieved a graph (figure 2) that should have had a best fit of a power model, but instead achieved a linear model that best fit our graph.  we achieved a linear model of  by plotting our data (table 4) that we collected.  the correct power model that we should have achieved would be a model close to .  for lab 6 we completed 4 different sets of the third experiment (table 5), with varying tilt values (tables 6 - 9).  by creating a graph (figures 3 - 6) through the collected data (tables 6 - 9), we created 4 different mathematical models.  from observing these mathematical models, we could see that the y-intercept was affected by this change to the tilt, meaning that the y-intercept value is correlated to the tilt of the system.  if we were to create a model using each of the 4 mathematical models created, we would achieve one close to , where t is the tilt in meters.

we did not reach this point in lab 6, but if we had we would have been able to compare the mathematical models that we got to verify the statement that tilt only affects the y-intercept of the mathematical models we achieved in lab 5 from experiment 1 (table 1 - 2, and figure 1).  we could have also compared the overall mathematical model we got of , to verify whether their models also measured up to the idea that the value of the tilt affects the y-intercept by 3t, where t is tilt in meters.

a systematic error that may have affected the results of our experiment is the way we went about putting the car on a frictionless surface.  we would just simply turn on the air and let the car run its course, instead of turning on the air and holding the car, to allow it to become completely frictionless first.  another systematic error that may have been present is that we did not always keep mass 2 still before we started, sometimes it would be swaying at the end of the string, which could cause for an affect on the experiment.  in the future we could prevent this by setting mass 2 as close to straight down from the pulley and wait for the swaying to slow or stop to reduce as much swaying, that might affect the experiment, as we can.

some constraints that may affect the generalizability of our experiments is the mass that we were able to add to the system.  we only had 300 g to be able to add for the second experiment (table 3), which means that the model only works for the data that we collected (table 4) and we can not necessarily make any claims about values larger or smaller than what we collected.  another constraint that we had was the amount of tilt we created.  we only had tilt values from 3.25 x 10-3 m to 28.87 x 10-3 m that we could create using the blocks that were provided to us.  this means that our mathematical model of , that was created for the third experiment (table 5) can only be safely used for values from 3.25 x 10-3 m to 28.87 x 10-3 m and can not necessarily generalize about for other values of tilt.

our mathematical models we created support newton’s second law of motion as it states .  from our first model (figure 1) from the first experiment (table 1), as we increase the force applied, the acceleration increases (figure 1).  in the second model (figure 2) from the second experiment (table 3), if we were to create the correct mathematical model of something close to  we would see that this also follows newton’s second law as we can solve this equation.  , this equation now looks very similar to newton’s second law and shows that if we had created the correct model it would have been consistent with newton’s second law.