discussions and conclusions

	the purpose of these labs was to create a system to observe acceleration based on the changing of masses in a pulley system as in lab 05 and then also to observe acceleration based on increasing friction values in lab 06. both labs the main goal was to collect data and then create mathematical models that could be applied to other real-world situations. the mathematical model in lab 05 was meant to show how well the linear fit of the first graph and the power curve of the second graph fits. due to the r values being almost one shows that the two models are a good fit for their data. the hanging weight of the system was the independent variable. also, the error bars are so small on the graphs that they are not noticeable. these experiments were performed with a computer software to limit error to its lowest degree. then the three models created after doing lab 06 experiment was meant to show how friction affects different data sets. however, in lab 06 all three of the graphs created a linear model. the same thing goes for the error bars in lab 06.

	

	this is group 2 and group 3’s mathematical models found from doing lab 06 experiment. these two models help reinforce what we found during the completion of lab 06. these two groups rather than placing magnets on different locations on the system they increased the elevation of their systems to increase or decrease the effect of gravity on their system. these two groups help us to better understand the values found from the experiment by showing the different effects friction and gravity can have on a moving system. our lab group was one of the only groups testing friction rather than gravity. so, the numbers in our mathematical model help represent friction where the numbers shown from the other two groups represent the effect of gravity. it may be more difficult to compare to other groups because we are not testing the same thing as them. we are testing something that could have a similar affect on acceleration. for the third model for the two groups above will be different than out third trial because the increase their acceleration by increasing their elevation towards the end of the system. in out experiment out acceleration began getting slower and slower as the magnets got closer to the track.

	there could have been a few instances of different errors found within each experiment. the main error of both experiments would tend to be random error. in lab 06 the magnets would tend to stick to the system or stay connected throughout the experiment so there was some random error in the tests where the magnets were not fully on the system. a way to fix this in the future would be to get stronger magnets that do not require tap added to the system or we could add stickier tape to the system. then in lab 05 there was some random error performing the experiment when the frictionless track that the cart would run on would not function properly and the string would fall off the motor. the best way to reduce this is to just rerun your test if the string falls off the motor.

	the main constraint of both these experiments would be the time allowed to complete the experiment. we just had to make sure we managed out time to get all our data and then complete the questions along with the experiment to find the mathematical model so other groups could compare with us. another constraint would be when completing the wrap up of the lab i had to do certain parts of it on my own without the input of the rest of the group so it could affect some of the answers.

	finally, in relation to newton’s second law  the two mathematical models are consistent with that equation. mass of the system does affect the acceleration if the force and the mass are being changed. adding friction into the equation as our group did during lab 06 also changes the acceleration in that equation as well as changes the amount of force needed to get the system to move. so, based upon these labs newton’s second law does apply to both and the equation has many factors that could change other numbers especially when friction and gravity are involved in a system. the numbers will be changed based upon which aspect is changing. friction will always be opposing acceleration. gravity will sometimes be acting in the same direction as acceleration or it could be acting against it so it will depend on which direction each force is acting and which force is being changed.