discussion and conclusion

	the purpose of this lab was to determine which, if any or all, variables influenced the period of a swinging pendulum (variables being mass, string length, and angle of release). after we conducted the experiments for each of the variables in question and gathered data from the same experiments, we can correctly determine the relation between each variable and the period of the pendulum.

	for mass being the independent variable, we previously predicted that the mass of the pendulum will not affect the period. this can be proven correct by our data (table 2 and figure 1 above) because there are little to no variations in the pendulum period as the mass of the pendulum increases. even though technical difficulties prevented our error bars from working in the figure, we can still determine that the error bars are supposed to overlap with each other for all of the trials. the error bars overlapping for each of the trials, proves that it is reasonable that the mass does not change the period of the pendulum, verifying our original prediction.

	for the angle of release being the independent variable, we predicted that the angle of the pendulum would increase the period. at larger angles of release this appears to be true, because the period of the pendulum slightly increases as the angle of release gets greater and greater. however, at smaller differences in angles the difference is so small that it does not truly affect it. this can be proven in our data (table 4) and graph (figure 2). the data from table 4 shows that the period is increasing at a very small rate, but when we look at the error bars in figure 2 they overlap with each other. this can be rationalized because the uncertainty value of .08233 causes the resulting values to possibly be equal due to the overlap of the error bars. because of this overlap, the trend in the data could be seen as a horizontal line, therefore showing that the angle of release does not necessarily affect the period.

	for the first two labs we correctly proved out original prediction that the longer the string being used the longer the period would be. in the third lab we were asked to verify that our prediction was correct again, but this time using a photogate instead of the stopwatches. we gathered the data using the photogate (table 7) and it showed no consistent trend linearly, thus using a power curve more accurately represented the trendline. we can see by the error bars in figure 3 that there is some overlap, but overall there are no points that overlap with every other point showing the period is affected in some way by the length of the string. our computed r-squared value for the trendline of the power curve was .9982, giving our graph credibility since it is so close to 1.

	using the theoretical equation to calculate the period ($t=2$ pi * sqrt (l / g)). the theoretical values we calculated are not exact to the values we calculated mathematically using our trendline equation $y = 0.1801x^{0.5207}$. we can confirm this power equation is reasonable to use due to the large r-squared value it has with it.



based on the results presented, the mathematical t is about .05 seconds lower than the theoretical t. the results for both are very similar to each other and the measured t periods that we received using the photogate. because of this we can that the mathematical model, we used from the power curve equation in excel, is supported by our theoretical t equation. the minor error of .05 seconds will be discussed below.

	in the lab experiments conducted, it is evident that errors were a part of the experiments because of the fact that our mathematical t values did not match with the theoretical t or measured t values. it is uncertain what exactly was the cause of the difference in values, but it could be due to a number of errors within the experiments. some of the errors that affected these values could have been that the measured string lengths were inaccurate, the measured drop angle was different from person to person, or that human reaction time is not accurate or constant in measuring something visibly.

	some other constraints, that should be considered in the true accuracy of our results, are that there is no way of accounting for air resistance and the increased surface area as we added more mass, that even though we were told the string’s mass is negligible it still has some mass, and that when using the mathematical model we do not count for any outside forces that would possibly change the results.