discussion and conclusion 



the purpose of the experiments conducted during the last three lab periods was to investigate the research question of what impacts the period of a pendulum for small swings. three independent variables were tested is  pendulum length, pendulum mass, and the angle of release of the pendulum. in the initial experiment, three hypotheses were formed and tested through separate procedures for each hypothesis made. the three hypotheses formed stated that length, mass, and angle of release directly affect the period of the pendulum. 

in figure 1 it appears mass does affect the period of the pendulum, but after further experimentation we discovered that the results shown in figure 1 must have been due to random error. figure 4 represents more accurate results, which is that there is no direct relationship between the mass and the period of the pendulum. figure 4 results were obtained from the online simulation which reduces the change of random and systematic error, and an uncertainty value of 0.0954 was found, this shows that the data is more reliable. therefore, our hypothesis that mass directly affects the period of the pendulum can be refuted. as figure 2 shows, length has a positive relationship on the period of the pendulum. as the length of the pendulum is increased from 65cm to 165cm the period increases from 1.247s to 2.387s (table 2). it is clear that pendulum length has a positive effect on the period, so our hypothesis that length directly affects the period of the pendulum can be accepted. as figure 3 shows, there is no direct relationship between the angle of release and the period of the pendulum. as the angle of release is increased from 20 to 30 to 40, the period stays fairly constant at 1.5s (table 3). since there is no change in period with the change in release angle, our hypothesis that angle of release directly affects the period of the pendulum can be refuted. 

this first part of the experiment did not require extremely accurate measurements. by collecting this data we were able to conclude that mass and angle of release do not affect the period of the pendulum, but the length does. the objective was to determine relationships and not analyze data yet, our measurements obtained are sufficient enough to identify these given relationships.

after we determined that length was the only independent variable investigated that affected the period of the pendulum, we further investigated the hypothesis that the period of the pendulum is directly related to the length of the string used. we predicted that the period of the pendulum will increase in a positive linear relationship to the length of the string used. figure 8 shows that there is a positive relationship between length and period due to the r2 value of the power curve equaling 0.9992. as the length of the pendulum increased from 0.5m up to 1.85m, the period increases from 1.402s to 2.719s (table 5). it is apparent that this is a positive relationship, but as excel derived equation for the line of best-fit it was shown that the relationship is not linear, but it is a power relationship. from this data we can conclude that our hypothesis that there is a direct relationship between length and the period of the pendulum can be accepted. 

the theoretical mathematical model for the period of the pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$  the experimental mathematical model that we calculated was $y=1.9935 x^{0.4995}$ (figure 8). the coefficient in the mathematical model is 1.9935 and the coefficient in the theoretical mathematical equation is 2.007. these coefficients are relatively close in value which further supports our hypothesis. the slight difference in the equations can be attributed to experimental errors. 

constraints that occurred during these experiments include human error, which is considered random error. this human error occurred during the first part of this experiment where the period of the pendulum was recorded using stop-watches. the values for the time could have either been too high or too low than the expected value. in the third part of the experiment the random error was minimized by using an additional piece of equipment, a photogate. the photogate has a scale error of 0.001 seconds, which help result in more precise data. time constraints were also apparent because of the certain amount of time we had in class, which limited the amount of trials performed. in the future, if more trials were completed more accurate and precise measurements would be obtained. 

systematic errors were reduced to negligible size. the stopwatches used were accurate and showed similar times. the tape measures were strong and durable, so no stretching could have occurred to skew the measurements. throughout this experiment we did not make any assumptions that would affect the experimental data. all controls were held constant in each experiment and given measurements were tested multiple times to obtain absolute certainty.

the hypotheses that mass and the angle of release directly affected the period of the pendulum were refuted and could be further tested in the alternate hypotheses that mass and the angle of release have no effect on the period of the pendulum. the hypothesis that length directly affects the period of the pendulum was accepted and tested again using more precise equipment, the photogate, and the hypothesis was again accepted.