discussion and conclusion

	the goal of the lab was to determine the factors that had an effect on the time for a pendulum to complete one period of motion. factors that were tested included mass, angle of release, and the length of the pendulum. when one factor was tested (the independent variable) the remaining were held constant to make sure data was accurate. for the data acquired through testing different masses of pendulums, we were able to test if our hypothesis of an increased mass would result in a decreased period and found that mass had virtually no effect on the period of a pendulum. for the data acquired through testing different angles of release, we were able to test that our hypothesis of an increased angle would result in an increased period. this was found to be true partially as angles starting around 45 degrees and increasing towards 90 from there showed a positive correlation in the graph. however, angles below this point showed no correlation which caused our hypothesis to fail. lastly, for the data acquired through testing different lengths of pendulums, we were able to test that our hypothesis of an increased length would result in an increased period. this was found to be fully true as time periods would become increasingly larger as the length increased. when graphed, this showed a positive correlation which further supported our hypothesis.

	from this, we tested further and recorded more and more data to produce a stronger trendline on the graph. after testing 16 points and recording that data, we were able to produce a trendline with the equation  with an r2 value of 0.9996 as shown in graph 3.3. this shows a strong correlation between our data and the equation. the theoretical equation derived here matches up well with the actual equation when our data is plugged in for the length and force of gravity. angles that were within the bounds of not causing an effect on the period of the pendulum would have to be used here as an angle of release at 60 degrees might also have some effect on the period as shown by graph 2.3. lastly, mass could be changed for each test, although it wouldn’t be good practice, and it would have no effect on the period, as graph 2.1 shows with the data having no correlation.

	the errors in the lab were mainly the result of human error over the use of technology to measure time and each factor tested. for example, the time period was measured by each member of the group, then was averaged to get a general value. this limits random error but, doesn’t get rid of it entirely. if the time was measured by a piece of technology, this would produce more systematic error but still provide a stronger set of data. the same thing applies to the angle of release where any force added when releasing the pendulum would create random error. systematic error comes into play here too as the protractor wasn’t in the same spot each time an angle was measured, nor was it released from the exact angle each time. again, technology could replace the human element of this and limit the error down so that it isn’t as significant as when human error is the cause. all these things created some sort of uncertainty with our measurement, due to the fact that we didn’t have these exact readings on angles, mass, and length. for the angle, uncertainty with the release point could vary +/- 2 degrees or more just due to position of the protractor. adding to this uncertainty would be the angle at which the measurement it seen. if above or below, then the angle could be more or less than measured. timing had uncertainty to its measurement to a value of +/- 0.01 just based on the hand recorded values. this could be way worse though depending on if the button was hit before or after the pendulum actually completed one period. when done with technology, this uncertainty moves down to +/- 0.001 and is fairly accurate. lastly the uncertainty of the mass could be +/- 2 grams because the balance may have something on it to add mass or the actual mass itself may not be exact.

	constraints when running this experiment, such as a limited amount of time, made it hard to really see where that point is when testing angles of release that we start to see a positive correlation in the data. this along with other factors such as the density of air, or the impact of friction make it harder to take the data and generalize it for every situation. however, when talking about a pendulum that has zero friction, and is started with an angle less than 20 degrees, then we can use our formula found from the data to determine what we think the period of the pendulum will be. when the angle is greater than 20 degrees, or when there are outside forces other than gravity and tension acting on the pendulum will result it our generalization being deemed false.