discussion:

the purpose of this lab is to develop mathematical models that will describe the behavior of a real-world system, which in this case is the relationship between force, mass, and acceleration. this lab also has the purpose of making it known what each variable and numerical value represents within a mathematical model.

the two experiments in lab 05 led the resulting models relating mass and acceleration. the constant c1 in this case would be the applied force of the mass divided by the acceleration due to gravity, in order to produce a value for acceleration. the constant c2 is the subtractive acceleration due to friction. the mathematical model produced by lab 06 was based on applied force vs acceleration, since it was known that the hanging mass would accelerate due to gravity. c1 in this case would be the inverse of the mass in order to produce acceleration, while c2 is again the subtractive acceleration due to friction. in both cases, the mathematical model is the result of the trendline formed by the graphed data.


the findings of both groups result in mathematical models that are similar to ours. group 2 has models that reflect our observed change in acceleration based on the inclination of the track, as the decline will yield a higher acceleration. group 5 has models that are of a similar format from lab 05, with one being linear and the other being a power equation. the data from group 2 helps to clarify the values of c1 and c2, as c1 is the force/g, and c2 is the acceleration due to friction.

a source of systematic error could have stemmed from the pulley which measured acceleration being inaccurate. this would have resulted in a slightly higher or lower value for acceleration than what was reported. this could be reduced by making sure that the pulley is correctly calibrated before running each experiment. random error may have arisen from the use of the balance, as readings may have been inaccurate. to remedy this, using a digital balance may have been more reliable, as readings would be direct rather than based on approximating a value on the scale.

this experiment is performed assuming that friction is negligible, as evidenced by the use of the air track. because of this, a model developed in an environment where friction needed to be considered would be different in terms of coefficients in the model. it is also assumed that acceleration due to gravity is constant (i.e. 9.8 m/s2), so if the experiment was performed in an environment where acceleration due to gravity is different, the model would change as well.

both models are consistent with newton’s second law. in the model involving the mass of the cart, the mass of the system will increase, so the acceleration will need to decrease in order to keep force constant. this aligns with the values returned in the graph. in the model involving the hanging mass, since applied force is increasing while the total mass of the cart remains the same, the acceleration of the cart will increase in order to keep force constant. this also aligns with the values shown in the graph.