discussion and conclusion

the purpose of this experiment was to develop a mathematical model to describe the behavior of a system according to newton’s second law and to understand what the variables in this model represent. the research question being investigated during this lad was, how does the acceleration of a system change when the applied force changes. in lab 05, results indicated that the hanging weight on the cart had an effect on the overall acceleration of the system. during lab, we had originally predicted that this would be a linear relationship and after performing the lab it proved to be true, shown by the graph in figure 2. since this is a linear relationship, it implies that as the applied force (from the hanging mass) increases on the system, the acceleration will also increase. when looking at the data provided from two other groups, we can conclude that our testable hypothesis is true. our testable hypothesis stated that, “applied force will change the acceleration of the object”. both graphs also show a positive linear relationship of the system. error bars were included to to show the uncertainty of the system, but these were so small they were negligible. from this, we can conclude that there was little error in the measurements done during this lab. this conclusion is also supported by the second half of lab 05, furthering proving our original prediction that the weight of the system, affects the acceleration of the system. this relationship can be visualized in figure 3. 

during each lab there are two kinds of error is  random and systematic. systematic error could have occurred if our balance was not correctly calibrated, resulting in incorrect mass calculations. to reduce systematic error, we could make sure all of the lab equipment is properly calibrated before the start of data collection. random error is often caused by human error. one source of random error that could have occured during this lab would be if when calculating slope on the computer system, we did not highlight the same amount of the line to get the slope.

both of these mathematical models support newton’s second law because acceleration is affected by the force acting on a system and the system’s mass. in the first experiment, force was applied by hanging mass, however the total mass remained constant. this highlights the fact that as force applied (mass hung) increases, acceleration increases. in the second experiment however, the total mass was increased and the force applied (hanging mass) remained constant. this caused the acceleration to decrease as mass increased. experiment 3 showed that, in this case, friction caused by magnets is relatively negligible and did not have a significant effect on the acceleration of the system. this was also supported by another group’s results shown below.