discussion/conclusion 

by analyzing the data stated above, we can answer the question “what forces/physical aspects influence the acceleration of an object?”. this research question is testing the accuracy of newton’s second law. by looking at newton’s second law, we can see that acceleration equals the net force divided by the mass. we can split forces up into y and x forces. in order to find the factors that affect acceleration we want to look at the horizontal direction (x axis). by looking at the experiment that tests the effects of hanging weight (applied force) on the acceleration, we can see that the applied force is acting on the object in the x direction, so it will have a correlation with the acceleration. by looking at the graph of applied force vs. acceleration, we can see that there is a strong positive correlation between applied force and acceleration. the error bars on this graph are too small to be seen, so this proves that our data is accurate. 

let’s say that we were to increase the weight of the string that is holding the hanging weight (applied weight). this would impact the glider by causing more tension force. as we know if we add more forces to the x direction, it will impact the glider. by adding more tension force, we can hypothesize that the increase in weight of the string will increase the acceleration.

looking at the theoretical and mathematical models, we can see that f/ the mass of a system is the same as c1*mass because $c1=\frac{1}{m_{sys}}$. so from this we can tell that 1/mass*f is the same as f/mass. knowing this, we can then explore the forces of gravity and the weight force that the system exerts upward (in result to the gravitational force). these forces do not matter when an object is moving in the horizontal direction because they cancel each other out. from this we can see that the only forces acting on acceleration are those that affect motion in the horizontal direction. knowing this, we can see that the force applied is acting on the x axis, meaning that it is pulling the glider faster with increased applied pressure.


figure 3 is  this figure shows data from a different group in our second lab period where they tested the effects of friction (iv) on acceleration (dv). this shows that friction has little to no correlation to the acceleration. similar to testing the mass on an object, as the force applied increases, so does the acceleration. with this being said, friction will not impact the acceleration.

as we conclude our results from our experiments, we take a look at some possible errors that could have affected the results/ influenced our numbers. one possible error that could have resulted from the experiments could be a random error due to rounding some of the numbers obtained and not using the full numbers. another possible error could be a systematic error coming from the air track. the air track could have not worked correctly. another possible random error could be that the “datastudio is the slope of the best-fit line through the velocity vs time data points and therefore has randomness” (taken from lab 06 prelab). in order to reduce these errors, it is important that you take several trials of the same measurements and calculate the average. 

the reason we conducted these experiments the way we did is because of the fact that there were some constraints throughout these experiments. one possible constraint would be the limited number of blocks that were presented to us to use when testing the effects of angle on acceleration. in lab, we were only given a few heights to test, and these heights were very small. as we saw from our results there was a very minor correlation between angle and acceleration. i believe we could have more accurate answers if we were presented with more extremes to test angle. 

overall, we can conclude that the forces impacting acceleration of an object in a horizontal direction must be a change in the mass, applied force and the angle (all forces affecting the x direction).  this evidence supported our hypothesis (by looking at uncertainty, error bars, graphs, trendlines and comparing the mathematical models) of each experiment. we can then support newton’s second law.