Discussion and conclusion
 The research question in this experiment is “How do three factors, length of the string, start angles, and the mass of the pendulum, affect the period of the swing?” 
The first experiment showed how the start angle, which was the independent variable, affects the period of the swing, which was the dependent variable. The investigation was executed by keeping the control variable the same values, such as the length of the string was 0.21 meters and the mass of the pendulum was 0.13 kilograms, and changing the values of the start angles which were 5 degrees, 10 degrees, and 15 degrees. According to the Figure 1, the conclusion was that as the start angle increases, the period of the swing increases; therefore, they have positive correlation.
 In the second experiment, it addressed that how the mass on the pendulum, which was the independent variable, affects the period of the swing, which was the dependent variable. The investigation was done by keeping the values’ control variables the same, such as the length of the string was 0.21 meters and the start angle was 10 degrees, and changing the values of the pendulum’s mass which were 0.5 kg, 0.13 kg, and 0.25 kg. According to the Figure 2, the conclusion was that the mass does not have strong effect on the period of the pendulum; therefore, they have no correlation. 
In the last experiment, it showed that how the length of the string, which was the independent variable, affects the period of the swing, which was the dependent variable. As the control variables, the mass of the pendulum was 0.13 kg and the start angle was 10 degrees. Moreover, the independent variable, the length of the string, had different values such as 0.265m, 0.52m, and 0.715m. According to the Figure 3, the conclusion was that the length of the string affects the period of the swing. Hence, they have positive correlation. 
 
 The theoretical equation for the period of a pendulum is $t=\frac{2\pi}{\sqrt{\frac{g}{l}}}$ and the experimental equation is $y=1.9796 x^{0.5151}$ or $T= 1.9796 L^{0.5151}$. If we plug g is 9.8 m/s2 in the theoretical equation, we will have $T=2.00 L^{0.5}$. The coefficient of the theoretical equation and experiment equation are almost the same. Moreover, when we executed the experiment of the length of the string versus the period of the swing, we found out that the best fit relationship between those variables with the high R2 value (R2 is 0.9993) which was close to 1. According to Figure 4, there is a nonlinear relationship, which is a power relationship, between the length of the string (IV) and the period of the swing (DV). There are some factors that do not extremely impact the period of the pendulum such as the start angle and the mass of the pendulum. As long as we chose the start angle less than 10 degrees and kept the mass’s value the same which was 0.05kg, the mathematic model still gave the accurate data with the photogate. The theoretical models gave different slope of each graph from the mathematical model. The theoretical models gave linear relationship, otherwise, the mathematical model gave the power relationship. This difference occurred because my group used the photogate, which gave more accurate data than the stopwatch, in the mathematical model.
 There are two errors that were present in during the experiment. In the first experiment, we have both random errors and systematic errors. In random errors, it could include the human technique and unexpected contact during the motion of the pendulum. Firstly, we could have touched the pendulum or kept the string stable without knowing that; therefore, it affected the result. Secondly, we could have estimated inaccurately the time to press the button of the stopwatch. There was a possible systematic error that happened during the first experiment such as measuring the length of the string from the top to the node. In the mathematical model experiment, we had extremely small systematic error because we were using the photogate to count the period of the swing. Moreover, we tended to have more random error as I discussed above. To reduce the error for the future experiment, we should do each experiment several times (at least 3 times). Moreover, we should practice using the photogate and the stopwatch to improve our techniques. Furthermore, to gain more accurate data, we should choose the start angle which is at most 20 degrees.  
 In this experiment, there are some constraints may limit the generalization of my results. Firstly, the random error and the systematic error can affect the accurate data during the investigation such as human technique, the stopwatch, and setting up the experiment wrong. Secondly, the assumption that make us ignore many different outside variables and circumstances. Lastly, if the start angle is larger than 20 degrees, the data might be affected and not accurate as we choose the start angle which is less than 20 degrees. 