discussion and conclusion: 

	the purpose of this lab was to develop mathematical models that describe the behavior of a real system. another purpose is to try to relate the physical surroundings to the mathematical model and to get an understanding of how the math model and the physical world are correlated.  


the findings by group 6 in picture 1 are the same as what was found during lab 06 for my group. this makes sense since group 6 investigated the affect on the acceleration with a forward tilt of the air track.  for our models in graphs 3-7 our y-intercept increased slowly while group 6’s graphs have the y intercept increasing slowly as well.  this makes sense because the y-intercept represents the tilt of the track no matter the side it is on.  both group 6 and my group both changed the tilt of the track thus causing the y-intercept in our models to increase.  for the slope however as the y- intercept in the models on picture 1 for group 6 increased the acceleration increased, while during my groups experiment our acceleration decreased.  this makes sense because the tilts are opposite of each other.  for my group we set the tilt working against the cart thus causing the cart to have to overcome a larger gravity force to accelerate, while in group 6’s case the tilt worked with the cart thus giving the cart a higher force and acceleration to start off with. 

the findings by group 2 in picture 2 show that increasing retarding force decreases the net force.  this makes sense because as the retarding force increased the first constant in their model decreased because the retarding adds an extra force against the cart thus causing the 1/force of the system to decrease because there is a net force acting against the system.  the y-intercept stays constant because the track is not being changed. this allows the thought that the first constant in model 1 is the inverse of the mass of the system because it changed when the net force changed in group 6’s findings. 

	potential errors that could have been present could be systematic with having the group measure using a scale and not having an accurate way to measure the size of the blocks that raised the track off the ground.  these could cause the data from the model to be off because the data is not the accurate data. to reduce error, we used a system that had .001 error to measure the velocity rather than having the group use stopwatches.  this allowed us to have accurate velocities and ultimately accurate accelerations. in the future we could use more accurate measuring instruments such as a digital scale and an accurate cm measuring tool.

	some constraints of the experiment are that the measurements are based on the user, and that the blocks don’t have set measurements.  there also could be better ways to raise the track like an extendable leg.  there should also be given a level to be able to measure if the track is level at the beginning of testing.  these would help make the data more accurate and generally closer to the desired equation o$f=ma$.

	model 1 is consistent with newton’s second law because it has a first constant of the force of the system and has x being the acceleration.  thus, it is force times acceleration, which is the equation from newton’s second law.  theoretically, the y-intercept should be zero, however it is not because the track is not able to be completely level, so the equation should just be $f=ma$. model 2 is consistent with newtons second law because it is the force of m2 times the acceleration of the system, which is newtons first law.  the exponent should be 1, but is not because it is not possible to make the track completely level.